=head1 NAME

backup help - Displays the syntax of specified C<backup> commands or lists functional
descriptions of all C<backup> commands

=head1 SYNOPSIS

backup help  [B<-topic> I<help string> [I<help string> ...]]  [B<-help>]

backup h [B<-t> I<help string> [I<help string> ...]]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<backup help> command displays the complete online help entry (short
description and syntax statement) for each operation code specified by
the B<-topic> argument. If the B<-topic> argument is omitted, the output
includes the first line (name and short description) of the online
help entry for every C<backup> command.

To list every C<backup> command whose name or short description includes
a specified keyword, use the C<backup apropos> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-topic> I<help string> [I<help string> ...]

Indicates each command for which to display the complete online
help entry. Omit the C<backup> part of the command name, providing
only the operation code (for example, specify C<dump>, not C<backup
dump>). If this argument is omitted, the output briefly
describes every C<backup> command.

=item B<-help> 

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The online help entry for each C<backup> command consists of the
following two or three lines:

=over

=item *

The first line names the command and briefly describes its
function.

=item *

The second line lists aliases for the command, if any.

=item *

The final line, which begins with the string C<Usage>, lists the
command's options in the prescribed order. Online help entries use
the same symbols (for example, brackets) as the reference pages in
this document.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example displays the online help entry for the C<backup
dump> command:

   backup help dump
   backup dump: start dump
   Usage: backup dump -volumeset <volume set name> -dump <dump level name>
   [-portoffset <TC port offset>]  [-at <Date/time to start dump>+]
   [-append]  [-n]  [-file <load file>]  [-help]

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(1)>,
L<backup_apropos(1)>

=cut
