=head1 NAME

backup deldump - Deletes a dump level from the Backup Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

backup deldump B<-dump> I<dump level name>  [B<-localauth>]
[B<-cell> I<cell name>]  [B<-help>]

backup deld B<-d> I<dump level name>  [B<-l>]  [B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<backup deldump> command deletes the indicated dump level and all of
its child dump levels from the dump hierarchy in the Backup Database.
Use the C<backup listdumps> command to display the dump hierarchy.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4


=item B<-dump> I<dump level name>

Specifies the complete pathname of the dump level to delete.


=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The C<backup> command interpreter
presents it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server
during mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument. For more details, see the introductory L<backup(1)> reference page.


=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory L<backup(1)> reference page.


=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command deletes the dump level B</sunday1/monday1> from the
dump hierarchy, along with any of its child dump levels.

    backup deldump /sunday1/monday1

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the B</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on every
machine where the Backup Server is running, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser B<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(1)>,
L<backup_adddump(1)>,
L<backup_listdumps(1)>

=cut
