=head1 NAME

backup apropos - Displays each help entry containing a keyword string

=head1 SYNOPSIS

backup apropos B<-topic> I<help string>  [B<-help>]

backup ap B<-t> I<help string>  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<backup apropos> command displays the first line of the online help
entry for any C<backup> command that has in its name or short description
the string specified by the B<-topic> argument.

To display the syntax for a command, use the C<backup help> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4


=item B<-topic> I<help string>

Specifies the keyword string to match, in lowercase letters
only. If the string is more than a single word, surround it
with double quotes (" ") or other delimiters.


=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The first line of a command's online help entry names it and briefly
describes its function. This command displays the first line for any
C<backup> command where the string specified with the B<-topic> argument is
part of the command name or first line.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example lists all C<backup> commands that include the word
B<tape> in their names or short descriptions:

   backup apropos tape
   labeltape: label a tape
   readlabel: read the label on tape
   scantape: dump information recovery from tape
   status: get tape coordinator status

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(1)>,
L<backup_help(1)>

=cut
