=head1 NAME

backup quit - Leaves interactive mode

=head1 SYNOPSIS

quit [B<-help>]

q [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<(backup) quit> command exits interactive mode, returning the issuer
to the regular shell prompt at which the C<backup> or C<backup interactive>
command was issued to enter interactive mode. The command has no
effect when issued outside interactive mode. Issuing the <B<Ctrl-d>>
command also exits interactive mode.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The C<backup> command interpreter
presents it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server
during mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument. For more details, see the introductory L<backup(1)>
reference page.

=item B<-cell>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory L<backup(1)> reference page.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command exits interactive mode:

   backup> quit


=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 CAVEATS

To exit interactive mode, all jobs must be completed. Use the C<(backup)
jobs> command to list any jobs currently pending or executing, and the
C<(backup) kill> command to terminate them as necessary.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(1)>,
L<backup_interactive(1)>,
L<backup_jobs(1)>,
L<backup_kill(1)>

=cut
