=head1 NAME

backup delvolset - Deletes one or more volume sets from the Backup Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

backup delvolset B<-name> I<volume set name> [I<volume set name> ...]
[B<-localauth>]  [B<-cell> I<cell name>]  [B<-help>]

backup delvols B<-n> I<volume set name> [I<volume set name> ...]  [B<-l>]  [B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<backup delvolset> command deletes each volume set named by the
B<-name> argument, and the volume entries each contains, from the Backup
Database. The C<backup listvolsets> command lists the volume sets (and
their volume entries) currently defined in the Backup Database.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-name> I<volume set name> [I<volume set name> ...]

Names each volume set to delete.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The C<backup> command interpreter
presents it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server
during mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument. For more details, see the introductory L<backup(1)> reference page.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory L<backup(1)> reference page.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command deletes the volume set called user and all
volume entries in it:

   backup delvolset user

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the B</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on every
machine where the Backup Server is running, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser B<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 CAVEATS

Deleting a temporary volume set is possible only within the
interactive session in which it was created. Exiting the interactive
session also destroys the temporary volume set automatically.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(1)>,
L<backup_addvolentry(1)>,
L<backup_addvolset(1)>,
L<backup_delvolentry(1)>,
L<backup_listvolsets(1)>

=cut
