=head1 NAME

backup interactive - Enters interactive mode

=head1 SYNOPSIS

backup [interactive]  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-cell> I<cell name>]  [B<-help>]

backup [i]  [B<-l>]  [B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<backup interactive> initiates an interactive session for issuing
C<backup> commands. As indicated in the syntax statement, the operation
code (C<interactive>) is optional.

Several features of interactive mode distinguish it from regular mode:

=over

=item *

In interactive mode, the C<backupE<gt>> prompt replaces the system
(shell) prompt. The operator enters only a command's operation
code (omitting the command suite name, C<backup>).

=item *

If the B<-localauth> flag or the B<-cell> argument is included on the
C<backup (interactive)> command, the settings apply to all commands
issued during that interactive session. The issuer does not need
to type them on every command. Another consequence is that the
flag and argument do not appear in the syntax statement generated
by the C<help> subcommand or B<-help> flag on an individual command
issued at the C<backupE<gt>> prompt.

=item *

The C<(backup) jobs> and C<(backup) kill> commands are available only in
interactive mode. It is not possible to track and terminate backup
operations as cleanly in non-interactive mode.

=item *

It is not necessary to enclose strings that include metacharacters
in double quotes or other delimiters.

=item *

The C<backup> command interpreter establishes a connection to the
Backup Server, Volume Server and Volume Location (VL) Server
processes as it enters interactive mode, and uses the same
connection for all commands during the session. Execution time can
therefore be faster than in non-interactive mode, in which the
command interpreter must establish a new connection for each
command.

=back

To exit an interactive session, issue the C<(backup) quit> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-localauth> 

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The C<backup> command interpreter
presents it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server
during mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument. For more details, see the introductory L<backup(1)> reference page.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory L<backup(1)> reference page.

=item B<-help> 

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows how the B<-localauth> flag and B<-cell> argument
do not appear when the C<help dump> subcommand is issued in interactive
mode.

    backup
   backup> help dump
   dump: start dump
   Usage: dump [-volumeset <volume set name>] [-dump <dump level name>]
   [-portoffset <TC port offset>] [-at <Date/time to start dump>+]
   [-append ] [-n ] [-file <load file>] [-help ]

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None. However, C<backup> commands that require privilege in regular mode
still require it in interactive mode.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(1)>,
L<backup_jobs(1)>,
L<backup_kill(1)>,
L<backup_quit(1)>,
L<butc(1)>

=cut
