=head1 NAME

backup delhost - Deletes a Tape Coordinator entry from the Backup Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

backup delhost B<-tapehost> I<tape machine name> [B<-portoffset> I<TC port offset>]
[B<-localauth>]  [B<-cell> I<cell name>]  [B<-help>]

backup delh B<-t> I<tape machine name>  [B<-p> I<TC port offset>]
[B<-l>]  [B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<backup delhost> command deletes the indicated Tape Coordinator
entry from the Backup Database. It is then impossible to submit backup
operations to that Tape Coordinator, even if it is still running. To
keep configuration information consistent, also remove the
corresponding entry from the B</usr/afs/backup/tapeconfig> file on the
Tape Coordinator machine.

To list the Tape Coordinator machines and port offsets defined in the
Backup Database, issue the C<backup listhosts> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-tapehost> I<tape machine name>

Specifies the hostname of the machine housing the Tape
Coordinator to delete.

=item B<-portoffset> I<TC port offset>

Specifies the port offset number of the Tape Coordinator to
delete. If omitted, it defaults to B<0>. If provided, it is an
integer between B<0> (zero) and B<58510>, and must match the port
offset number assigned to the same combination of Tape
Coordinator and tape device or file in the
B</usr/afs/backup/tapeconfig> file on the Tape Coordinator machine
indicated by the B<-tapehost> argument.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The C<backup> command interpreter
presents it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server
during mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument. For more details, see the introductory L<backup(1)> reference page.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory L<backup(1)> reference page.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command deletes the Backup Database entry for the Tape
Coordinator with port offset 2 on the Tape Coordinator machine
B<backup3.abc.com>:

   backup delhost -tapehost backup3.abc.com -portoffset 2

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the B</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on every
machine where the Backup Server is running, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser B<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(1)>,
L<backup_addhost(1)>,
L<backup_listhosts(1)>

=cut
