=head1 NAME

backup listvolsets - Lists volume set entries from the Backup Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

backup listvolsets [B<-name> I<volume set name>]
[B<-localauth>]  [B<-cell> I<cell name>]  [B<-help>]

backup listv [B<-n> I<volume set name>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<backup listvolsets> command displays the Backup Database records
for either

=over

=item *

All volume sets and their volume entries, if the B<-name> argument is
omitted

=item *

The volume set specified by the B<-name> argument, along with its
volume entries

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-name> I<volume set name>

Names the volume set to display. If this argument is omitted,
the output lists all volume sets defined in the Backup
Database.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The C<backup> command interpreter
presents it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server
during mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument. For more details, see the introductory L<backup(1)>
reference page.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory L<backup(1)> reference page.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The entry for each volume set begins with the Volume set header and
the volume set's name. A temporary volume set's name is followed by
the string C<(temporary)>. Each volume entry follows on a separate line,
indicating the entry's index number and the server, partition, and
volume names it matches. The output uses the metacharacter notation
described on the L<backup_addvolentry(1)> reference page. Use the index
number to identify volume entries when deleting them with the C<backup
delvolentry> command.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows the volume entries in the three volume
sets currently defined in the Backup Database:

    backup listvolsets
   Volume set user:
       Entry   1: server .*, partition .*, volumes: user.*\.backup
   Volume set sun
       Entry   1: server .*, partition .*, volumes: sun4x_55\..*
       Entry   2: server .*, partition .*, volumes: sun4x_56\..*
   Volume set rs
       Entry   1: server .*, partition .*, volumes: rs_aix42\..*

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the B</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on every
machine where the Backup Server is running, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser B<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(1)>,
L<backup_addvolentry(1)>,
L<backup_addvolset(1)>,
L<backup_delvolentry(1)>,
L<backup_delvolset(1)>

=cut
