=head1 NAME

backup listdumps - Displays the dump hierarchy from the Backup Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

backup listdumps  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-cell> I<cell name>]  [B<-help>]

backup listd  [B<-l>]  [B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<backup listdumps> command displays the dump hierarchy from the
Backup Database.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The C<backup> command interpreter
presents it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server
during mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument. For more details, see the introductory L<backup(1)>
reference page.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory L<backup(1)> reference page.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output displays the complete dump hierarchy and indicates the
relationship between full and incremental dump levels. Full dump
levels appear at the left margin. The hierarchy can include more than
one full dump level; each one defines a subhierarchy of dump levels
that can be used for dumping different volume sets.

Incremental dump levels appear below and indented to the right of
their parent dump levels, which can be either full or incremental.
Since multiple incremental dump levels can share the same parent, an
incremental dump level is not always directly below its parent; the
amount of indentation indicates the parent/child relationship.

If a dump level has an associated expiration date, it appears along
with the level name. Absolute expiration dates appear in the format

I<dump_level> expires at I<day> I<month> I<date> I<time> I<year>

and relative expiration dates in the format

I<dump_level> expires in {I<years>y | I<months>m | I<days>d}

to indicate the number of years, months, days, or combination of the
three after creation a dump expires when created at this level.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example depicts six dump hierarchies. The expiration
date for all incremental dump levels is 13 days so that the
corresponding tapes can be recycled two weeks after their creation.
The expiration dates for all full dump levels is 27 days so that the
corresponding tapes can be recycled four weeks after their creation.

    backup listdumps
   /week1  expires in  27d
         /tuesday  expires in  13d
                 /thursday  expires in  13d
         /sunday  expires in  13d
                /tuesday expires in  13d
                        /thursday expires in  13d
   /week3  expires in  27d
         /tuesday  expires in  13d
                 /thursday  expires in  13d
         /sunday  expires in  13d
                /tuesday  expires in  13d
                        /thursday  expires in  13d
   /sunday1  expires in  27d
           /monday1  expires in  13d
           /tuesday1  expires in  13d
           /wednesday1  expires in  13d
           /thursday1  expires in  13d
           /friday1  expires in  13d
   /sunday2  expires in  27d
           /monday2  expires in  13d
           /tuesday2  expires in  13d
           /wednesday2  expires in  13d
           /thursday2  expires in  13d
           /friday2  expires in  13d
   /sunday3  expires in  27d
           /monday1  expires in  13d
           /tuesday1  expires in  13d
           /wednesday1  expires in  13d
           /thursday1  expires in  13d
           /friday1  expires in  13d
   /sunday4  expires in  27d
           /monday2  expires in  13d
           /tuesday2  expires in  13d
           /wednesday2  expires in  13d
           /thursday2  expires in  13d
           /friday2  expires in  13d

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the B</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on every
machine where the Backup Server is running, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser B<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(1)>,
L<backup_adddump(1)>,
L<backup_deldump(1)>

=cut
