=head1 NAME

backup listhosts - Lists Tape Coordinator machines registered in the Backup Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

backup listhosts [B<-localauth>]  [B<-cell> I<cell name>]  [B<-help>]

backup listh [B<-l>]  [B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<backup listhosts> command displays the Backup Database record of
the port offset numbers defined for Tape Coordinator machines. A Tape
Coordinator must have an entry in the list to be available for backup
operations.

The existence of an entry does not necessarily indicate that the Tape
Coordinator process (B<butc>) is currently running at that port offset.
To check, issue the C<backup status> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The C<backup> command interpreter
presents it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server
during mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument. For more details, see the introductory L<backup(1)>
reference page.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory L<backup(1)> reference page.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

After a C<Tape hosts:> header, the output reports two things about each
Tape Coordinator currently defined in the Backup Database:

=over

=item *

The hostname of the machine housing the Tape Coordinator. The
format of this name depends on the hostname format used when the
C<backup addhost> command was issued.

=item *

The Tape Coordinator's port offset number.

=back

The Tape Coordinators appear in the order in which they were added to
the Backup Database.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows the result of the command in the ABC
Corporation cell:

    backup listhosts
   Tape hosts:
       Host backup1.abc.com, port offset 0
       Host backup1.abc.com, port offset 1
       Host backup3.abc.com, port offset 4
       Host backup2.abc.com, port offset 3

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the B</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on every
machine where the Backup Server is running, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser B<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(1)>,
L<backup_addhost(1)>,
L<backup_delhost(1)>,
L<backup_status(1)>

=cut
