=head1 NAME

backup dbverify - Checks the integrity of the Backup Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

backup dbverify [B<-detail>]  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-cell> I<cell name>]  [B<-help>]

backup db [B<-d>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<backup dbverify> command checks the integrity of the Backup
Database. The command's output indicates whether the Backup Database
is damaged (data is corrupted) or not. If the Backup Database is
undamaged, it is safe to continue using it. If it is corrupted,
discontinue any backup operations until it is repaired.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-detail>

Reports the number of orphaned blocks found, any
inconsistencies, and the name of the server machine running the
Backup Server that is checking its copy of the database.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The C<backup> command interpreter
presents it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server
during mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument. For more details, see the introductory L<backup(1)> reference page.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory L<backup(1)> reference page.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The command displays one of the following two messages:

=over

=item B<Database OK>

The database is undamaged and can be used.

=item B<Database not OK>

The database is damaged. You can use the C<backup savedb> command
to repair many kinds of corruption as it creates a backup copy.
For more detailed instructions, see the IBM AFS Administration
Guide chapter about performing backup operations.

=back

The B<-detail> flag provides additional information:

=over

=item *

The number of I<orphan blocks> found. These are ranges of memory that
the Backup Server preallocated in the database but cannot use.
Orphan blocks do not interfere with database access, but do waste
disk space. To free the unusable space, dump the database to tape
by using the C<backup savedb> command, and then restore it by using
the C<backup restoredb> command.

=item *

Any inconsistencies in the database, such as invalid hostnames for
Tape Coordinator machines.

=item *

The name of the database server machine on which the Backup
Database was checked, designated as the Database checker. For a
detailed trace of the verification operation, see the
B</usr/afs/logs/BackupLog> file on the indicated machine. You can use
the C<bos getlog> command to display it.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command confirms that the Backup Database is undamaged:

   backup dbverify
   Database OK

The following command confirms that the Backup Database is undamaged
and that it has no orphan blocks or invalid Tape Coordinator entries.
The Backup Server running on the machine B<db1.abc.com> checked its copy
of the Database.

   backup dbverify -detail
   Database OK
   Orphan blocks 0
   Database checker was db1.abc.com

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the B</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on every
machine where the Backup Server is running, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser B<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 CAVEATS

While this command runs, no other backup operation can access the
Backup Database; the other commands do not run until this command
completes. Avoid issuing this command when other backup operations are
likely to run. The C<backup savedb> command repairs some types of
corruption.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<BackupLog(1)>,
L<bos_getlog(1)>,
L<backup(1)>,
L<backup_restoredb(1)>,
L<backup_savedb(1)>

=cut
