=head1 NAME

backup adddump - Defines a dump level in the dump hierarchy

=head1 SYNOPSIS

backup adddump B<-dump> I<dump level name> [I<dump level name> ...] [B<-expires> I<expiration date> ...]
[B<-localauth>]  [B<-cell> I<cell name>]  [B<-help>]

backup addd B<-d>  I<dump level name> [I<dump level name> ...] [B<-e> I<expiration date> ...]  [B<-l>]
[B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<backup adddump> command creates one or more dump levels in the dump
hierarchy stored in the Backup Database, and optionally assigns an
expiration date to each one. All of the dump levels in the Backup
Database collectively constitute the dump hierarchy.

Use the B<-expires> argument to associate an expiration date with each
dump level. When the Backup System subsequently creates a dump at the
dump level, it uses the specified value to derive the dump's
expiration date, which it records on the label of the tape (or backup
data file). The Backup System refuses to overwrite a tape until after
the latest expiration date of any dump that the tape contains, unless
the C<backup labeltape> command is used to relabel the tape. If a dump
level does not have an expiration date, the Backup System treats dumps
created at the level as expired as soon as it creates them.

(Note that the Backup System does not automatically remove a dump's
record from the Backup Database when the dump reaches its expiration
date, but only if the tape that contains the dump is recycled or
relabeled. To remove expired and other obsolete dump records, use the
C<backup deletedump> command.)

Define either an absolute or relative expiration date:

=over

=item *

An absolute expiration date defines the month/day/year (and,
optionally, hour and minutes) at which a dump expires. If the
expiration date predates the dump creation time, the Backup System
immediately treats the dump as expired.

=item *

A relative date defines the number of years, months, or days (or a
combination of the three) after the dump's creation that it
expires. When the Backup System creates a dump at the dump level,
it calculates an actual expiration date by adding the relative
date to the start time of the dump operation.

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4


=item B<-dump> I<dump level name> [I<dump level name> ...]

Names each dump level to add to the dump hierarchy. Precede
full dump level names with a slash (for example, B</full>).
Indicate an incremental dump level by preceding it with an
ordered list of the dump levels directly above it in the
hierarchy (its parent dump levels); use the slash as a
separator. The parent dump levels must already exist. For
example, the dump levels B</full> and B</full/incremental1> must
exist when the incremental dump level
B</full/incremental1/incremental2> is created.

Dump level names can have any number of levels, but cannot
exceed 256 characters in length, including the slashes. The
maximum length for any single level (the text between slashes)
is 28 characters, not including the preceding slash.

All alphanumeric characters are allowed in dump level names. Do
not use the period (.), however, because it is the separator
between the volume set name and dump level name in the dump
name assigned automatically by the C<backup dump> command. It is
best not to include other metacharacters either; if using them,
enclose them in double quotes (" ") when issuing the C<backup
adddump> command outside interactive mode.


=item B<-expires> I<expiration date> ...

Defines the absolute or relative expiration date to associate
with each dump level named by the B<-dump> argument. Absolute
expiration dates have the following format:

[B<at>] {B<NEVER> | I<mm/dd/yyyy> [I<hh:MM>] }

where the optional word B<at> is followed either by the string
B<NEVER>, which indicates that dumps created at the dump level
never expire, or by a date value with a required portion (I<mm>
for month, I<dd> for day, and I<yyyy> for year) and an optional
portion (I<hh> for hours and I<MM> for minutes).

Omit the I<hh>:I<MM> portion to use the default of midnight (00:00
hours), or provide a value in 24-hour format (for example,
B<20:30> is 8:30 p.m.). Valid values for the year range from B<1970>
to B<2037>; higher values are not valid because the latest
possible date in the standard UNIX representation is in
February 2038. The command interpreter automatically reduces
later dates to the maximum value.

Relative expiration dates have the following format:

[B<in>] [I<years>B<y>] [I<months>B<m>] [I<days>B<d>]

where the optional word B<in> is followed by at least one of a
number of years (maximum B<9999>) followed by the letter B<y>, a
number of months (maximum B<12>) followed by the letter B<m>, or a
number of days (maximum B<31>) followed by the letter B<d>. If
providing more than one of the three, list them in the
indicated order. If the date that results from adding the
relative expiration value to a dump's creation time is later
than the latest possible date in the UNIX time representation,
the Backup System automatically reduces it to that date.

=over

=item B<Note>: 

A plus sign follows this argument in the command's syntax
statement because it accepts a multiword value which does not need to
be enclosed in double quotes or other delimiters, not because it
accepts multiple dates. Provide only one date (and optionally, time)
definition to be associated with each dump level specified by the
B<-dump> argument.

=back

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The C<backup> command interpreter
presents it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server
during mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument. For more details, see the introductory L<backup(1)>
reference page.


=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory L<backup(1)> reference page.


=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command defines a full dump called B</1999> with a relative
expiration date of one year:

    backup adddump -dump /1999 -expires in 1y

The following command defines an incremental dump called
B</sunday1/monday1> with a relative expiration date of 13 days:

    backup adddump -dump /sunday1/monday1 -expires in 13d

The following command defines two dump incremental dump levels,
B</Monthly/Week1> and B</Monthly/Week2>. Their parent, the full dump level
B</Monthly>, must already exist. The expiration date for both levels is
12:00 a.m. on 1 January 2000.

    backup adddump -dump /Monthly/Week1 /Monthly/Week2 -expires at 01/01/2000

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the B</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on every
machine where the Backup Server is running, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser B<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(1)>,
L<backup_deldump(1)>,
L<backup_deletedump(1)>,
L<backup_listdumps(1)>,
L<backup_setexp(1)>

=cut
