=head1 NAME

backup addhost - Adds a Tape Coordinator entry to the Backup Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

backup addhost B<-tapehost> I<tape machine name> [B<-portoffset> I<TC port offset>]
[B<-localauth>]  [B<-cell> I<cell name>]  [B<-help>]

backup addh B<-t> I<tape machine name>  [B<-p> I<TC port offset>]
[B<-l>]  [B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<backup addhost> command creates a Tape Coordinator entry in the
Backup Database. The entry records

=over

=item *

The host name of the Tape Coordinator machine where the Tape
Coordinator (B<butc>) process runs, as specified with the B<-tapehost>
argument.

=item *

The Tape Coordinator's port offset number, as specified with the
B<-portoffset> argument. An entry for the port offset must also
appear in the B</usr/afs/backup/tapeconfig> file on the Tape
Coordinator machine, where it is mapped to a UNIX device name (for
a tape device) or pathname (for a backup data file).

=back

Each Tape Coordinator must have its own port offset number, and the
command fails if a Backup Database entry already exists for the
requested port offset number. To display existing Tape Coordinator
entries, use the C<backup listhosts> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-tapehost> I<tape machine name>

Specifies the fully-qualified hostname of the machine for which
to create a Tape Coordinator entry in the Backup Database. The
machine must have an entry in either the cell's naming service
(such as the Domain Name Service) or the host file (B</etc/hosts>
or equivalent) on the machine where the command is issued.

=item B<-portoffset> I<TC port offset>

Specifies the Tape Coordinator's port offset number. Provide an
integer from the range B<0> through B<58510>, or omit this argument
to use the default value of B<0> (zero). The value must match the
port offset number recorded for the same combination of Tape
Coordinator and tape device or file in the
B</usr/afs/backup/tapeconfig> file on the Tape Coordinator machine
named by the B<-tapehost> argument.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile file>. The C<backup> command interpreter
presents it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server
during mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument. For more details, see the introductory L<backup(1)> reference page.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory L<backup(1)> reference page.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command creates an entry in the Backup Database that
assigns port offset number 4 to a Tape Coordinator running on the
machine B<backup1.abc.com>:

    backup addhost -tapehost backup1.abc.com -portoffset 4

The following command creates a Backup Database entry that assigns
port offset number 0 to a Tape Coordinator on the machine
B<backup3.abc.com>:

    backup addhost backup3.abc.com

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the B</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on every
machine where the Backup Server is running, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser B<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(1)>,
L<backup_delhost(1)>,
L<backup_listhosts(1)>

=cut
