=head1 NAME

bos shutdown - Stops a process without changing its status flag in the
B</usr/afs/local/BosConfig> file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

bos shutdown B<-server> I<machine name>  [B<-instance> I<instances> [I<instances> ...]]  [B<-wait>]
[B<-cell> I<cell name>]  [B<-noauth>]  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-help>]

bos sh B<-s> I<machine name>  [B<-i> I<instances> [I<instances> ...]]  [B<-w>]
[B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<bos shutdown> command stops, on the server machine named by the
B<-server> argument, either

=over

=item *

All of the currently running AFS server processes, except the BOS
Server

=item *

Only the processes specified by the B<-instance> argument

=back

This command does not change a process's status flag in the
B</usr/afs/local/BosConfig> file, but only in the BOS Server's memory. To
stop a process and change its B<BosConfig> status flag, use the C<bos stop>
command instead.

Once stopped with this command, a process does not run again until an
administrator starts it by using the C<bos start>, C<bos startup>, or C<bos
restart> command, or until the BOS Server restarts (assuming that the
process's B<BosConfig> status flag is C<Run>).

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> I<machine name>

Indicates the server machine on which to stop processes.
Identify the machine by IP address or its host name (either
fully-qualified or abbreviated unambiguously). For details, see
the introductory reference page for the C<bos> command suite.

=item B<-instance> I<instances> [I<instances> ...]

Names each process to stop. Use the process name assigned with
the B<-instance> argument to the C<bos create> command. The output
from the C<bos status> command lists the names. Omit this argument
to stop all processes other than the BOS Server.

=item B<-wait>

Delays the return of the command shell prompt until all
processes actually stop. If this argument is omitted, the
prompt returns almost immediately even if all processes are not
stopped.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity B<anonymous> to the issuer. Do
not combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more
details, see the introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The C<bos> command interpreter presents
the ticket to the BOS Server during mutual authentication. Do
not combine this flag with the B<-cell> or B<-noauth> options. For
more details, see the introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command stops all processes other than the BOS Server on
the machine B<fs3.abc.com>.

    bos shutdown fs3.abc.com

The following command stops the B<upserver> process (server portion of
the Update Server) on the machine B<fs5.abc.com>.

    bos shutdown -server fs5.abc.com -instance upserver

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the B</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the
machine named by the B<-server> argument, or must be logged onto a server
machine as the local superuser B<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<BosConfig(1)>,
L<KeyFile(1)>,
L<UserList(1)>,
L<bos(1)>,
L<bos_create(1)>,
L<bos_restart(1)>,
L<bos_start(1)>,
L<bos_startup(1)>,
L<bos_status(1)>

=cut
