=head1 NAME

bos addhost - Adds a database server machine to the B</usr/afs/etc/CellServDB> file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

bos addhost B<-server> I<machine name>  B<-host> I<host name> [I<host name> ...]
[B<-cell> I<cell name>]  [B<-noauth>]  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-help>]

bos addh B<-s> I<machine name>  B<-ho> I<host name> [I<host name> ...]
[B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-he>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<bos addhost> command adds an entry for each database server machine
specified with the B<-host> argument to the B</usr/afs/etc/CellServDB> file
on the machine named by the B<-server> argument.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> I<machine name>

Identifies the server machine on which to change the
B</usr/afs/etc/CellServDB> file. Identify the machine by IP
address or its host name (either fully-qualified or abbreviated
unambiguously). For details, see the introductory reference
page for the C<bos> command suite.

In cells that run the United States edition of AFS and use the
Update Server to distribute the contents of the B</usr/afs/etc>
directory, it is conventional to specify only the system
control machine as a value for the B<-server> argument. In cells
that run the international version of AFS, repeat the command
for each file server machine. For further discussion, see the
introductory reference page for the C<bos> command suite.

=item B<-host> I<host name> [I<host name> ...]

Specifies the fully-qualified host name (such as B<db1.abc.com>)
of each database server machine to register in the B<CellServDB>
file.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity B<anonymous> to the issuer. Do
not combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more
details, see the introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The C<bos> command interpreter presents
the ticket to the BOS Server during mutual authentication. Do
not combine this flag with the B<-cell> or B<-noauth> options. For
more details, see the introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command adds the database server machines B<db2.abc.com>
and B<db3.abc.com> to the B</usr/afs/etc/CellServDB> file on the machine
B<fs1.abc.com> (the system control machine).

    bos addhost -server fs1.abc.com -host db2.abc.com db3.abc.com

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the B</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the
machine named by the B<-server> argument, or must be logged onto a server
machine as the local superuser B<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 CAVEATS

After executing this command (and waiting for the Update Server to
propagate the changes, if it is used), restart the database server
processes on all database server machines to force election of a
quorum that includes the new set of machines listed in the
B</usr/afs/etc/CellServDB> file. The IBM AFS Quick Beginnings explains in
more detail how to add and remove database server machines.

It is best to maintain a one-to-one mapping between hostnames and IP
addresses on a multihomed database server machine (this is actually
the conventional configuration for any AFS machine). The BOS Server
uses the B<gethostbyname( )> routine to obtain the IP address associated
with the hostname specified by the -host argument. If there is more
than one address, the BOS Server records in the B<CellServDB> entry the
one that appears first in the list of addresses returned by the
routine. The routine possibly returns addresses in a different order
on different machines, which can create inconsistency.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<CellServDB_server_version(1)>,
L<KeyFile(1)>,
L<UserList(1)>,
L<bos(1)>,
L<bos_listhosts(1)>,
L<bos_removehost(1)>,
IBM AFS Quick Beginnings

=cut
