=head1 NAME

bos listusers - Lists the privileged users from the B</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

bos listusers B<-server> I<machine name>  [B<-cell> I<cell name>]
[B<-noauth>]   [B<-localauth>]   [B<-help>]

bos listu B<-s> I<machine name>  [B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<bos listusers> command lists the user names from the
B</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the file server machine named by the
B<-server> argument. The users are authorized to issue privileged C<bos> and
C<vos> commands.

To edit the list of users, use the C<bos adduser> and C<bos removeuser>
commands.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> I<machine name>

Indicates the server machine from which to display the B<UserList>
file. Identify the machine by IP address or its host name
(either fully-qualified or abbreviated unambiguously). For
details, see the introductory reference page for the C<bos>
command suite.

For consistent performance in the cell, the output must be the
same on every server machine. The L<bos_adduser(1)> reference page
explains how to keep the machines synchronized.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity B<anonymous> to the issuer. Do
not combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more
details, see the introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The C<bos> command interpreter presents
the ticket to the BOS Server during mutual authentication. Do
not combine this flag with the B<-cell> or B<-noauth> options. For
more details, see the introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output lists the user name of each user entitled to issue
privileged C<bos> and C<vos> commands.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example lists the users from B<UserList> file on the
machine B<fs4.abc.com>.

    bos listusers fs4.abc.com
   SUsers are: pat smith jones terry

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<KeyFile(1)>,
L<UserList(1)>,
L<bos(1)>,
L<bos_adduser(1)>,
L<bos_removeuser(1)>

=cut
