=head1 NAME

bos status - Displays the status of server processes

=head1 SYNOPSIS

bos status B<-server> I<machine name>  [B<-instance> I<server process name> [I<server process name> ...]]
[B<-long>]  [B<-cell> I<cell name>]  [B<-noauth>]  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-help>]

bos stat B<-s> I<machine name>  [B<-i> I<server process name> [I<server process name> ...]]
[B<-lon>]  [B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-loc>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<bos status> command reports the status of processes on the server
machine named by the B<-server> argument, either

=over

=item *

All of the AFS server processes listed in the
B</usr/afs/local/BosConfig> file

=item *

Only these processes named by the B<-instance> argument

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> I<machine name>

Indicates the server machine for which to report server process
status. Identify the machine by IP address or its host name
(either fully-qualified or abbreviated unambiguously). For
details, see the introductory reference page for the C<bos>
command suite.

=item B<-instance> I<server process name> [I<server process name> ...]

Names each process for which to report status. Use the process
name assigned with the B<-instance> argument to the C<bos> command.
The output from the C<bos status> command lists the names.

=item B<-long>

Produces more detailed status information.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity B<anonymous> to the issuer. Do
not combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more
details, see the introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The C<bos> command interpreter presents
the ticket to the BOS Server during mutual authentication. Do
not combine this flag with the B<-cell> or B<-noauth> options. For
more details, see the introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output for a process includes at least one line, which reports one
of the following as the process's current status:

=over

=item *

C<currently running normally>. The process's status flag in the
B<BosConfig> file is C<Run>. For B<cron> entries, this message indicates
only that the command is scheduled to run, not necessarily that it
was executing when the C<bos status> command was issued.

=item *

C<disabled>. The process is not running, and its B<BosConfig> status
flag is C<NotRun>.

=item *

C<temporarily disabled>. The process is not running although its
status flag in the B<BosConfig> file is C<Run>. Either an administrator
used the C<bos shutdown> command to stop it, or the
BOS Server stopped trying to restart it after numerous failed
attempts. In the second case, the auxiliary message is C<stopped for
too many errors>.

=item *

C<temporarily enabled>. The process is running although its status
flag in the B<BosConfig> file is C<NotRun>. An administrator has used
the C<bos startup> command to start it.

=back

If one of the following special circumstances applies to the process,
the indicated message appears in its entry:

=over

=item *

C<has core file>. The process failed and created a core file in the
B</usr/afs/logs> directory. If the BOS Server was able to restart the
process after the failure, the primary status is C<currently running
normally>.

=item *

C<stopped for too many errors>. The reason for the primary status
C<temporarily disabled> is that the BOS Server's attempts to restart
the process all failed.

=back

The entry for the B<fs> process always includes a second line to report
the process's C<Auxiliary status>, which is one of the following:

=over

=item *

C<file server running>. The File Server and Volume Server components
of the File Server process are running normally.

=item *

C<salvaging file system>. The Salvager is running, so the File Server
and Volume Server are temporarily disabled. The BOS Server
restarts them as soon as the Salvager is finished.

=back

The entry for a B<cron> process includes an C<Auxiliary status> that reports
when the command will next execute.

If the B<-long> flag is used, each entry includes the following
additional information:

=over

=item *

The process's type (C<simple>, C<fs>, or C<cron>).

=item *

The day and time the process last started or restarted.

=item *

The number of C<proc starts>, which is how many times the BOS Server
has started or restarted the process since it started itself.

=item *

The C<Last exit> time when the process (or one of the component
processes in the B<fs> process) last terminated. This line does not
appear if the process has not terminated since the BOS Server
started.

=item *

The C<Last error exit> time when the process (or one of the component
processes in the B<fs> process) last failed due to an error. A
further explanation such as C<due to shutdown request> sometimes
appears. This line does not appear if the process has not failed
since the BOS Server started.

=item *

Each command that the BOS Server invokes to start the process, as
specified by the B<-cmd> argument to the C<bos create> command.

=item *

The pathname of the notifier program that the BOS Server invokes
when the process terminates (if any), as specified by the
B<-notifier> argument to the C<bos create> command.

=back

If the B<-long> flag is provided and the BOS Server discovers that the
mode bits on files and subdirectories in the local B</usr/afs> directory
differ from the expected values, it prints the following warning
message:

   Bosserver reports inappropriate access on server directories

The following chart summarizes the expected mode bit settings. A
question mark indicates that the BOS Server does not check that bit.

 /usr/afs                 drwxr?xr-x
 /usr/afs/backup          drwx???---
 /usr/afs/bin             drwxr?xr-x
 /usr/afs/db              drwx???---
 /usr/afs/etc             drwxr?xr-x
 /usr/afs/etc/KeyFile     -rw????---
 /usr/afs/etc/UserList    -rw?????--
 /usr/afs/local           drwx???---
 /usr/afs/logs            drwxr?xr-x

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example command displays the status of processes on the
machine fs3.abc.com:

    bos status fs3.abc.com
   Instance buserver, currently running normally.
   Instance kaserver, currently running normally.
   Instance ptserver, currently running normally.
   Instance vlserver, currently running normally.
   Instance fs, has core file, currently running normally.
       Auxiliary status is: file server running.
   Instance upserver, currently running normally.
   Instance runntp, currently running normally.

The following example command displays a detailed status report for
the fs and ptserver processes on the machine fs1.abc.com.

    bos status -server fs1.abc.com -instance fs ptserver -long
   Instance fs, (type is fs), currently running normally.
       Auxiliary status is: file server running.
       Process last started at Wed Jan 7 5:34:49 1998 (3 proc starts)
       Last exit at Wed Jan 7 5:34:49 1998
       Last error exit at Wed Jan 7 5:34:49 1998, due to shutdown
           request
       Command 1 is '/usr/afs/bin/fileserver'
       Command 2 is '/usr/afs/bin/volserver'
       Command 3 is '/usr/afs/bin/salvager'
   Instance ptserver, (type is simple) currently running normally.
       Process last started at Tue Jan 6 8:29:19 1998 (1 proc starts)
       Command 1 is '/usr/afs/bin/ptserver'

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<BosConfig(1)>,
L<KeyFile(1)>,
L<bos(1)>,
L<bos_create(1)>,
L<bos_shutdown(1)>,
L<bos_startup(1)>,
L<bos_status(1)>

=cut
