=head1 NAME

bos listhosts - Displays the contents of the B</usr/afs/etc/CellServDB> file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

bos listhosts B<-server> I<machine name>  [B<-cell> I<cell name>]
[B<-noauth>]  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-help>]

bos listh B<-s> I<machine name>  [B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-h>]

bos getcell B<-server> I<machine name>  [B<-cell> I<cell name>]
[B<-noauth>]  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-help>]

bos getc B<-s> I<machine name>  [B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<bos listhosts> command formats and displays the list of a cell's
database server machines from the B</usr/afs/etc/CellServDB> file on the
server machine named by the B<-server> argument.

To alter the list of machines, use the C<bos addhost> and C<bos removehost>
commands.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> I<machine name>

Indicates the server machine from which to display the
B</usr/afs/etc/CellServDB> file. Identify the machine by IP
address or its host name (either fully-qualified or abbreviated
unambiguously). For details, see the introductory reference
page for the C<bos> command suite.

For consistent performance in the cell, the output must be the
same on every server machine. The L<bos_addhost(1)> reference page
explains how to keep the machines synchronized.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity B<anonymous> to the issuer. Do
not combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more
details, see the introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The C<bos> command interpreter presents
the ticket to the BOS Server during mutual authentication. Do
not combine this flag with the B<-cell> or B<-noauth> options. For
more details, see the introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The first line of the output names the cell to which the server
machine belongs. Each of the following lines names a database server
machine for that cell.

The Host number assigned to each database server machine is for
server-internal use only and is not the same as, nor necessarily
related to, the machine's IP address. The BOS Server assigned it as
part of performing the C<bos addhost> command.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command displays the database server machines listed in
the B</usr/afs/etc/CellServDB> file on the machine B<fs7.abc.com>.

    bos listhosts fs7.abc.com
   Cell name is abc.com
       Host 1 is db1.abc.com
       Host 2 is db2.abc.com
       Host 3 is db3.abc.com

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<CellServDB_server_version(1)>,
L<KeyFile(1)>,
L<bos(1)>,
L<bos_addhost(1)>,
L<bos_removehost(1)>

=cut
