=head1 NAME

bos help - Displays the syntax of specified C<bos> commands or lists functional
descriptions of all C<bos> commands

=head1 SYNOPSIS

bos help [B<-topic> I<help string> [I<help string> ...]]  [B<-help>]

bos h [B<-t> I<help string> [I<help string> ...]]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<bos help> command displays the complete online help entry (short
description and syntax statement) for each command operation code
specified by the B<-topic> argument. If the B<-topic> argument is omitted,
the output includes the first line (name and short description) of the
online help entry for every C<bos> command.

To list every C<bos> command whose name or short description includes a
specified keyword, use the C<bos apropos> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-topic> I<help string> [I<help string> ...]

Indicates each command for which to display the complete online
help entry. Omit the C<bos> part of the command name, providing
only the operation code (for example, specify C<status>, not C<bos
status>). If this argument is omitted, the output briefly
describes every C<bos> command.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The online help entry for each C<bos> command consists of the following
two or three lines:

=over

=item *

The first line names the command and briefly describes its
function.

=item *

The second line lists aliases for the command, if any.

=item *

The final line, which begins with the string C<Usage>, lists the
command's options in the prescribed order. Online help entries use
the same symbols (for example, brackets) as the reference pages in
this document.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command displays the online help entry for the C<bos
status> command:

    bos help status
   bos status: show server instance status
   Usage: bos status -server <machine name> [-instance <server
   process name>+] [-long] [-cell <cell name>] [-noauth]
   [-localauth] [-help]

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<bos(1)>,
L<bos_apropos(1)>

=cut
