=head1 NAME

bos exec - Executes a command on a remote server machine

=head1 SYNOPSIS

bos exec B<-server> I<machine name>  B<-cmd> I<command to execute>
[B<-cell> I<cell name>]  [B<-noauth>]  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-help>]

bos e B<-s> I<machine name>  B<-cm> I<command to execute>  [B<-ce> I<cell name>]
[B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<bos exec> command executes the indicated command on the file server
machine named by the B<-server> argument. Its intended use is to reboot
the machine, using the B</etc/reboot> command or equivalent.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> I<machine name>

Indicates the server machine on which to execute the command.
Identify the machine by IP address or its host name (either
fully-qualified or abbreviated unambiguously). For details, see
the introductory reference page for the C<bos> command suite.

=item B<-cmd> I<command to execute>

Specifies the complete local disk pathname of the command to
execute (for example, B</etc/reboot>). Surround this argument with
double quotes ("") if the command contains one or more spaces.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity B<anonymous> to the issuer. Do
not combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more
details, see the introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The C<bos> command interpreter presents
the ticket to the BOS Server during mutual authentication. Do
not combine this flag with the B<-cell> or B<-noauth> options. For
more details, see the introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command reboots the machine B<fs2.abc.com>. The issuer has
previously issued the C<bos shutdown> command to shutdown all processes
cleanly.

   bos exec -server fs2.abc.com -cmd /sbin/shutdown -r now

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the B</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the
machine named by the B<-server> argument, or must be logged onto a server
machine as the local superuser B<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<bos(1)>

=cut
