=head1 NAME

bos getrestart - Displays the automatic restart times for server processes

=head1 SYNOPSIS

bos getrestart B<-server> I<machine name>  [B<-cell> I<cell name>]
[B<-noauth>]  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-help>]

bos getr B<-s> I<machine name>  [B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<bos getrestart> command displays two restart times from the
B</usr/afs/local/BosConfig> file on the server machine named by the
B<-server> argument:

=over

=item *

The I<general restart time> at which the BOS Server process
automatically restarts itself and all processes marked with status
Run in the B<BosConfig> file. The default is Sunday at 4:00 a.m.

=item *

The binary restart time at which the BOS Server automatically
restarts any process for which the time stamp on the binary file
in the B</usr/afs/bin> directory is later than the last restart time
for the process. The default is 5:00 a.m. Use the C<bos getdate>
command to list a binary file's timestamp, and the B<-long> flag to
the C<bos status> command to display a process's most recent restart
time.

=back

Use the C<bos setrestart> command to set the restart times.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> I<machine name>

Indicates the server machine for which to display the restart
times. Identify the machine by IP address or its host name
(either fully-qualified or abbreviated unambiguously). For
details, see the introductory reference page for the C<bos>
command suite.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity B<anonymous> to the issuer. Do
not combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more
details, see the introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The C<bos> command interpreter presents
the ticket to the BOS Server during mutual authentication. Do
not combine this flag with the B<-cell> or B<-noauth> options. For
more details, see the introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output consists of two lines:

Server I<machine_name> restarts at I<time>

Server I<machine_name> restarts for new binaries at I<time>

Possible values for I<time> include:

=over

=item *

C<never>, indicating that the BOS Server never performs that type of
restart

=item *

C<now>, indicating that the BOS Server performs that type of restart
only each time it restarts

=item *

A specified day and time, indicating that the BOS Server performs
that type of restart once per week. Example: C<sun 4:00 am>.

=item *

A specified time, indicating that the BOS Server performs that
type of restart once per day. Examples: C<11:00 pm>, C<3:00 am>.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example displays the restart times for the machine
B<db2.abc.com>:

    bos getrestart db2.abc.com
   Server db2.abc.com restarts at sun 4:00 am
   Server db2.abc.com restarts for new binaries at 2:15 am

In the following example, the issuer abbreviates the machine name
B<fs1.abc.com> to B<fs1>, relying on the cell's name server to resolve the
name. The output echoes the abbreviated form.

    bos getrestart fs1
   Server fs1 restarts at sat 5:00 am
   Server fs1 restarts for new binaries at 11:30 pm

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<BosConfig(1)>,
L<KeyFile(1)>,
L<bos(1)>,
L<bos_getdate(1)>,
L<bos_setrestart(1)>,
L<bos_status(1)>

=cut
