=head1 NAME

bos setcellname - Sets the cell's name in the B</usr/afs/etc/ThisCell> and
B</usr/afs/etc/CellServDB> files

=head1 SYNOPSIS

bos setcellname B<-server> I<machine name>  B<-name> I<cell name>
[B<-cell> I<cell name>]  [B<-noauth>]  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-help>]

bos setc B<-s> I<machine name>  B<-n> I<cell name>  [B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<bos setcellname> command establishes the cell's name and makes the
server machine named by the B<-server> argument a member of it, by
recording the value of the B<-name> argument in two files which it
creates on the local disk:

=over

=item *

B</usr/afs/etc/ThisCell>

=item *

B</usr/afs/etc/CellServDB>. The cell name appears on the first line
in the file, preceded by the required > symbol. The machine name
specified with the B<-server> argument appears on the second line
along with its IP address as obtained from the cell's naming
service. The machine is thus designated as the cell's first
database server machine.

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> I<machine name>

Indicates the server machine on which to set the cell name in
the B<ThisCell> and B<CellServDB> file. It is always the first
machine installed in a cell. Identify the machine by IP address
or its host name (either fully-qualified or abbreviated
unambiguously). For details, see the introductory reference
page for the C<bos> command suite.

=item B<-name> I<cell name>

Defines the cell name, using standard Internet domain name
format (the actual domain name is usually appropriate).
Examples are B<abc.com> for the ABC Corporation and B<stateu.edu> for
the State University. It must match the value of the B<-cell>
argument, if that is provided.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity B<anonymous> to the issuer. Do
not combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more
details, see the introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The C<bos> command interpreter presents
the ticket to the BOS Server during mutual authentication. Do
not combine this flag with the B<-cell> or B<-noauth> options. For
more details, see the introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command defines the cell name B<abc.com> in the B<ThisCell>
and B<CellServDB> files on the machine B<fs1.abc.com> as it is installed as
the cell's first server machine.

    bos setcellname -server fs1.abc.com -name abc.com

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

Authorization checking is normally turned off during installation,
which is the only recommended time to use this command; in this case
no privilege is required. If authorization checking is turned on, the
issuer must be listed in the B</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the machine
named by the B<-server> argument, or must be logged in as the local
superuser B<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is included.

=head1 CAVEATS

Issue this command only when the installing the cell's first AFS
server machine. The IBM AFS Quick Beginnings explains how to copy over
the B<ThisCell> and B<CellServDB> files from this or another appropriate
machine during installation of additional server machines.

Be sure to choose a satisfactory cell name when issuing this command,
because changing a cell's name is very complicated; for one thing, it
requires changing every password in the Authentication Database.
Consult the IBM AFS Administration Guide for advice on choosing a cell
name. If changing the cell's name is absolutely necessary, contact AFS
Product Support for complete instructions.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<CellServDB_server_version(1)>,
L<KeyFile(1)>,
L<ThisCell_server_version(1)>,
L<UserList(1)>,
L<bos(1)>,
IBM AFS Quick Beginnings,
IBM AFS Administration Guide

=cut
