=head1 NAME

bos restart - Restarts a server process

=head1 SYNOPSIS

bos restart B<-server> I<machine name>  [B<-instance> I<instances> [I<instances> ...]]  [B<-bosserver>]
[B<-all>]  [B<-cell> I<cell name>]  [B<-noauth>]  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-help>]

bos res B<-s> I<machine name>  [B<-i> I<instances> [I<instances> ...]]  [B<-b>]  [B<-a>]
[B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<bos restart> command stops and immediately restarts server
processes on the server machine named by the B<-server> argument.
Indicate which process or processes to restart by providing one of the
following arguments:

=over

=item *

The B<-instance> argument names each AFS server process to stop and
restart immediately, regardless of its status flag in the
B</usr/afs/local/BosConfig> file. Do not include B<bosserver> in the
list of processes; use the B<-bosserver> flag instead.

=item *

The B<-bosserver> flag stops all AFS server processes running on the
machine, including the BOS Server. A new BOS Server starts
immediately, and it starts a new instance of each process that is
marked with the Run status flag in the B<BosConfig> file.

=item *

The B<-all> flag stops all AFS server processes running on the
machine, except the BOS Server, and immediately restarts the
processes that are marked with the Run status flag in the
B<BosConfig> file.

=back

This command does not change a process's status flag in the B<BosConfig>
file.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> I<machine name>

Indicates the server machine on which to restart each process.
Identify the machine by IP address or its host name (either
fully-qualified or abbreviated unambiguously). For details, see
the introductory reference page for the C<bos> command suite.

=item B<-instance> I<instances> [I<instances> ...]

Names each process to stop and then restart immediately
regardless of its status flag setting. Use the process name
assigned with the B<-instance> argument to the C<bos create> command.
The output from the C<bos status> command lists the names. Provide
this flag or one of the B<-bosserver> or B<-all> options, but do not
combine them.

=item B<-bosserver>

Stops all AFS server processes running on the machine,
including the BOS Server. A new BOS Server instance immediately
starts, and starts all processes marked with the Run status
flag in the B<BosConfig> file. Provide this flag or one of the
B<-instance> or B<-all> options, but do not combine them.

=item B<-all>

Stops all AFS server processes running on the machine other
than the BOS Server, and immediately restarts the processes
marked with the B<Run> status flag in the B<BosConfig> file. Provide
this flag or one of the B<-instance> or B<-bosserver> options, but do
not combine them.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity B<anonymous> to the issuer. Do
not combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more
details, see the introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The C<bos> command interpreter presents
the ticket to the BOS Server during mutual authentication. Do
not combine this flag with the B<-cell> or B<-noauth> options. For
more details, see the introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command stops and restarts all processes running on the
machine B<fs3.abc.com>, including the BOS Server.

    bos restart -server fs3.abc.com -bosserver

The following command stops and restarts all processes running on the
machine B<fs5.abc.com>, excluding the BOS Server.

    bos restart -server fs5.abc.com -all

The following command stops and restarts the Protection Server and
Volume Location (VL) Server processes on the machine B<db3.abc.com>:

    bos restart -server db3.abc.com -instance ptserver vlserver

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the B</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the
machine named by the B<-server> argument, or must be logged onto a server
machine as the local superuser B<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<BosConfig(1)>,
L<KeyFile(1)>,
L<UserList(1)>,
L<bos(1)>,
L<bos_create(1)>,
L<bos_status(1)>

=cut
