=head1 NAME

bos uninstall - Reverts to the former version of a process's binary file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

bos uninstall B<-server> I<machine name>  B<-file> I<files to uninstall> [I<files to uninstall> ...]
[B<-dir> I<destination dir>]  [B<-cell> I<cell name>]
[B<-noauth>]  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-help>]

bos u B<-s> I<machine name>  B<-f> I<files to uninstall> [I<files to uninstall> ...]  [B<-d> I<destination dir>]
[B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<bos uninstall> command replaces each binary file specified by the
B<-file> argument with its C<.BAKversion> on the server machine named by the
B<-server> argument, which is normally the binary distribution machine
for its CPU/operating system type. It also changes the extension on
the current C<.OLD> version (if any) to C<.BAK>. Each binary file must
reside in the local B</usr/afs/bin> directory unless the B<-dir> argument
names an alternate directory.

To start using the reverted binary immediately, issue the C<bos restart>
command. Otherwise, the BOS Server automatically restarts the process
at the time defined in the B</usr/afs/local/BosConfig> file; use the C<bos
getrestart> command to display the time and the C<bos setrestart> time to
set it.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> I<machine name>

Indicates the binary distribution machine on which to revert to
the C<.BAK> version of binaries. Identify the machine by IP
address or its host name (either fully-qualified or abbreviated
unambiguously). For details, see the introductory reference
page for the C<bos> command suite.

If the machine is not a binary distribution machine and is
running an B<upclientbin> process, then the files are overwritten
the next time the B<upclientbin> process fetches the corresponding
file from the distribution machine (by default within five
minutes).

=item B<-file> I<files to uninstall> [I<files to uninstall> ...]

Names each binary file to replace with its C<.BAK> version.

=item B<-dir> I<destination dir>

Provides the complete pathname of the local disk directory
containing each file named by the B<-file> argument. It is
necessary only if the binaries are not in the B</usr/afs/bin>
directory.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity B<anonymous> to the issuer. Do
not combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more
details, see the introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The C<bos> command interpreter presents
the ticket to the BOS Server during mutual authentication. Do
not combine this flag with the B<-cell> or B<-noauth> options. For
more details, see the introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example command overwrites the B</usr/afs/bin/kaserver>
file on the machine B<fs4.abc.com> with its C<.BAKversion>, and the current
C<.BAK> version by the C<.OLDversion>.

    bos uninstall -server fs4.abc.com -file kaserver

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the B</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the
machine named by the B<-server> argument, or must be logged onto a server
machine as the local superuser B<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<BosConfig(1)>,
L<KeyFile(1)>,
L<UserList(1)>,
L<bos(1)>,
L<bos_getrestart(1)>,
L<bos_restart(1)>,
L<bos_setrestart(1)>,
L<upclient(1)>

=cut
