=head1 NAME

bos startup - Starts a process without changing its status flag in the
B</usr/afs/local/BosConfig> file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

bos startup B<-server> I<machine name>  [B<-instance> I<instances> [I<instances> ...]]
[B<-cell> I<cell name>]  [B<-noauth>]  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-help>]

bos startu B<-s> I<machine name>  [B<-i> I<instances> [I<instances> ...]]
[B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<bos startup> command starts, on the server machine named by the
B<-server> argument, either

=over

=item *

All AFS server processes not currently running but marked with the
C<Run> status flag in the B</usr/afs/local/BosConfig> file

=item *

Each process specified by B<-instance> argument, even if its status
flag in the B<BosConfig> file is C<NotRun>.

=back

To start a process and set its B<BosConfig> status flag to C<Run>, use the
C<bos start> command instead.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> I<machine name>

Indicates the server machine on which to start processes.
Identify the machine by IP address or its host name (either
fully-qualified or abbreviated unambiguously). For details, see
the introductory reference page for the C<bos> command suite.

=item B<-instance> I<instances> [I<instances> ...]

Names each process to start. Use the process name assigned with
the B<-instance> argument to the C<bos create> command. The output
from the C<bos status> command lists the names.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity B<anonymous> to the issuer. Do
not combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more
details, see the introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The C<bos> command interpreter presents
the ticket to the BOS Server during mutual authentication. Do
not combine this flag with the B<-cell> or B<-noauth> options. For
more details, see the introductory L<bos(1)> reference page.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command starts all processes marked with status flag C<Run>
in the B<BosConfig> file on the machine B<fs3.abc.com> that are not
currently running.

  bos startup fs3.abc.com

The following command starts the B<buserver>, B<kaserver>, B<ptserver>, and
B<vlserver> processes running on the machine B<db2.abc.com>, even if their
status flags in the B<BosConfig> file are C<NotRun>.

  bos startup -server db2.abc.com -instance buserver kaserver ptserver vlserver

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the B</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the
machine named by the B<-server> argument, or must be logged onto a server
machine as the local superuser B<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<BosConfig(1)>,
L<KeyFile(1)>,
L<UserList(1)>,
L<bos(1)>,
L<bos_create(1)>,
L<bos_start(1)>,
L<bos_status(1)>

=cut
