=head1 NAME

fs - Introduction to the C<fs> command suite

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The commands in the C<fs> command suite constitute the main
administrative interface to the Cache Manager on an AFS client
machine, which is responsible for fetching AFS data from file server
machines on behalf of applications running on the client machine.

There are several categories of commands in the C<fs> command suite:

=over

=item *

Commands to set and report how the Cache Manager interacts with
server machines: C<fs checkservers>, C<fs getcellstatus>, C<fs
getserverprefs>, C<fs listcells>, C<fs newcell>, C<fs setcell>,
C<fs setserverprefs>, C<fs sysname>, and C<fs wscell>

=item *

Commands to administer access control lists (ACLs): C<fs cleanacl>,
C<fs copyacl>, C<fs listacl>, and C<fs setacl>

=item *

Commands to administer server machines, volumes or partitions that
house a given file or directory: C<fs diskfree>, C<fs examine>, C<fs
listquota>, C<fs quota>, C<fs setquota>, C<fs setvol>,
C<fs whereis>, and C<fs whichcell>

=item *

Commands to administer the local client cache and related
information: C<fs checkvolumes>, C<fs flush>, C<fs flushvolume>, C<fs
getcacheparms>, and C<fs setcachesize>

=item *

Commands to administer volume mount points: C<fs lsmount>, C<fs
mkmount>, and C<fs rmmount>

=item *

Commands to control monitoring and tracing: C<fs debug>, and C<fs
messages>

=item *

A command to administer the Cache Manager's interaction with other
file systems: C<fs exportafs>

=item *

Commands to obtain help: C<fs apropos> and C<fs help>

=back

The Cache Manager and the C<fs> commands use and maintain the following
configuration files:

=over

=item *

The B</usr/vice/etc/CellServDB> file lists the database server
machines in the local cell and any foreign cell to which the
administrator wishes to enable AFS access for users working on the
machine. The database server machines run the Authentication,
Backup, Protection and Volume Location (VL) Server processes,
which maintain databases of administrative information. For users
to access a cell, its B<root.cell> volume must also be mounted in the
local cell's AFS file tree.

=item *

The B</usr/vice/etc/ThisCell> file defines the machine's cell
membership with respect to the AFS command suites and Cache
Manager access to AFS data.

=item *

The B</usr/vice/etc/cacheinfo> file defines configuration parameters
for the cache, including its size and whether it is in memory or
on disk.

=back

In addition, the Cache Manager automatically creates files on the
cache partition (by default, B</usr/vice/cache> for caching and tracking
files fetched from file server machines.

For more details, see the reference page for each file.

=head1 OPTIONS

The following flag is available on every command in the C<fs> suite. The
reference page for each command also lists it, but it is described
here in greater detail.

=over 4

=item B<-help>

Prints a command's online help message on the standard output
stream. Do not combine this flag with any of the command's
other options; when it is provided, the command interpreter
ignores all other options, and only prints the help message.

=back

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The privileges required for C<fs> commands vary more than for other
command suites. Pay special attention to the C<PRIVILEGE REQUIRED>
section of each command description.

The various types of necessary privilege include:

=over

=item *

Having permissions on a directory's ACL. For example, creating and
removing mount points requires B<a> (B<administer>), B<i> (B<insert>), and B<d>
(B<delete>) permissions on the ACL of the directory in which the
mount point resides.

=item *

Being logged onto the machine as the local superuser B<root>. This is
necessary when issuing commands that affect Cache Manager
configuration.

=item *

Belonging to the B<system:administrators> group in the Protection
Database.

=item *

No privilege. Many C<fs> commands simply list information.

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<CacheItems(1)>,
L<CellServDB_client_version(1)>,
L<ThisCell_client_version(1)>,
L<Vn(1)>,
L<VolumeItems(1)>,
L<cacheinfo(1)>,
L<fs_apropos(1)>,
L<fs_checkservers(1)>,
L<fs_checkvolumes(1)>,
L<fs_cleanacl(1)>,
L<fs_copyacl(1)>,
L<fs_diskfree(1)>,
L<fs_examine(1)>,
L<fs_exportafs(1)>,
L<fs_flush(1)>,
L<fs_flushmount(1)>,
L<fs_flushvolume(1)>,
L<fs_getcacheparms(1)>,
L<fs_getcellstatus(1)>,
L<fs_getclientaddrs(1)>,
L<fs_getserverprefs(1)>,
L<fs_help(1)>,
L<fs_listacl(1)>,
L<fs_listcells(1)>,
L<fs_listquota(1)>,
L<fs_lsmount(1)>,
L<fs_messages(1)>,
L<fs_mkmount(1)>,
L<fs_newcell(1)>,
L<fs_quota(1)>,
L<fs_rmmount(1)>,
L<fs_setacl(1)>,
L<fs_setcachesize(1)>,
L<fs_setcell(1)>,
L<fs_setclientaddrs(1)>,
L<fs_setquota(1)>,
L<fs_setserverprefs(1)>,
L<fs_setvol(1)>,
L<fs_storebehind(1)>,
L<fs_sysname(1)>,
L<fs_whereis(1)>,
L<fs_whichcell(1)>,
L<fs_wscell(1)>

=cut
