=head1 NAME

fs diskfree - Displays information about the partition housing a directory or file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fs diskfree [B<-path> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]]  [B<-help>]

fs df [B<-p> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]]  [B<-h>]

fs di [B<-p> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<fs diskfree> command formats and displays information about the
partition that houses the volume containing the specified directory or
file, including its size and how much space is currently used.

To display information about the volume itself, use the C<fs examine>
command. The C<fs examine> and C<fs quota> commands also display information
about a volume.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-path> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]

Names a file or directory that resides on the partition about
which to produce output. Partial pathnames are interpreted
relative to the current working directory, which is also the
default value if this argument is omitted.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output reports the following information about the volume and
partition that houses each file or directory:

=over

=item B<Volume Name>

The name of the volume

=item B<kbytes>

The partition's total size in kilobytes

=item B<used>

The number of kilobytes used on the partition

=item B<avail>

The number of kilobytes available on the partition

=item B<%used>

The percentage of the partition's total space that is used (the
used statistic divided by the kbytes statistic, times 100)

=back

If the C<%used> statistic is greater than 90%, it is marked with the
string C<E<lt>E<lt>WARNING> at the right margin.

If the volume is a read-only volume, the output includes information
about only one of the partitions that houses it, generally the one on
the file server machine with the lowest preference rank. To verify
which machine the output is referring to, use the C<vos listvldb> command
to list the volume's locations, and the C<vos partinfo> command to
display the size of each one.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows the output for the partitions housing the
volumes B<user.smith> and B<sun4x_56.bin>:

    fs diskfree -path /afs/abc.com/usr/smith /afs/abc.com/sun4x_56/bin
   Volume Name     kbytes  used     avail     %used
   user.smith     4177920 3841258  336662       92% <<WARNING
   sun4x_56.bin   4423680 3174500 1249180       72%

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the B<l> (B<lookup>) permission on the ACL of the root
directory of the volume that houses the file or directory named by the
B<-path> argument, and on the ACL of each directory that precedes it in
the pathname.

=head1 CAVEATS

The partition-related statistics in this command's output do not
always agree with the corresponding values in the output of the
standard UNIX C<df> command. The statistics reported by this command can
be up to five minutes old, because the Cache Manager polls the File
Server for partition information at that frequency. Also, on some
operating systems, the C<df> command's report of partition size includes
reserved space not included in this command's calculation, and so is
likely to be about 10% larger.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_examine(1)>

=cut
