=head1 NAME

fs examine - Displays information about the volume containing a directory or file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fs examine [B<-path> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]]  [B<-help>]

fs exa [B<-p> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]]  [B<-h>]

fs listvol [B<-p> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]]  [B<-h>]

fs listv [B<-p> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]]  [B<-h>]

fs lv [B<-p> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<fs examine> command displays information about the volume
containing each specified directory or file, including its volume ID
number, quota and the percentage of its quota that is used.

This command provides the most information about a volume, but the C<fs
listquota> command displays similar information in tabular format, and
the C<fs quota> command reports only the percentage of quota used.

To set volume quota, use the C<fs setquota> or C<fs setvol> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-path> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]

Names a file or directory that resides in the volume about
which to produce output. Partial pathnames are interpreted
relative to the current working directory, which is also the
default value if this argument is omitted.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output displays information about the volume that houses each
specified directory or file, in the following format

  Volume status for vid = volume ID named volume name
  Current offline message is message
  Current disk quota is quota in kilobytes
  Current blocks used are volume size in kilobytes
  The partition has available partition blocks available out of
     partition size

where the first line specifies the volume's ID number and name. The
C<Current offline message> line appears only if an administrator has
included the B<-offlinemsg> argument to the C<fs setvol> command. The
remaining lines report, respectively,

=over

=item *

the volume's quota in kilobytes, or the string C<unlimited> to
indicate an unlimited quota

=item *

the volume's current size in kilobytes

=item *

the number of blocks available and total size of the host
partition, both in kilobytes.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows the output for the volume B<user.smith> and
the partition housing it:

    fs examine -path /afs/abc.com/usr/smith
   Volume status for vid = 50489902 named user.smith
   Current maximum quota is 15000
   Current blocks used are 5073
   The partition has 336662 blocks available out of 4177920

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the B<l> (B<lookup>) permission on the ACL of the root
directory of the volume that houses the file or directory named by the
B<-path> argument, and on the ACL of each directory that precedes it in
the pathname.

=head1 CAVEATS

The partition-related statistics in this command's output do not
always agree with the corresponding values in the output of the
standard UNIX C<df> command. The statistics reported by this command can
be up to five minutes old, because the Cache Manager polls the File
Server for partition information at that frequency. Also, on some
operating systems, the C<df> command's report of partition size includes
reserved space not included in this command's calculation, and so is
likely to be about 10% larger.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_listquota(1)>,
L<fs_quota(1)>,
L<fs_setquota(1)>,
L<fs_setvol(1)>

=cut
