=head1 NAME

fs flushvolume - Forces the Cache Manager to discard all cached data from the volume
containing a file or directory

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fs flushvolume [B<-path> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]]  [B<-help>]

fs flushv [B<-p> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<fs flushvolume> command removes from the cache all data that was
fetched from the same volume as each specified directory or file. It
does not discard cached status information. The next time an
application requests data from a flushed directory or file, the Cache
Manager fetches the most current version from a File Server, along
with a new callback (if necessary) and associated status information.
This command has no effect on two types of data:

=over

=item 1.

Data in application program buffers

=item 2.

Data that has been changed locally and written to the cache but
not yet written to the copy on the file server machine

=back

To discard the data and status information associated with individual
files and directories, use the C<fs flush> command. To flush a corrupted
mount point, use the C<fs flushmount> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-path> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]

Names a file or directory from each volume for which to discard
all cached data. Partial pathnames are interpreted relative to
the current working directory, which is also the default value
if this argument is omitted.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command flushes from the cache all data fetched from the
volume that contains the current working directory:

    fs flushvolume

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the B<l> (B<lookup>) permission on the ACL of the root
directory of the volume that houses the file or directory named by the
B<-path> argument, and on the ACL of each directory that precedes it in
the pathname.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_flush(1)>,
L<fs_flushmount(1)>

=cut
