=head1 NAME

fs flushmount - Forces the Cache Manager to discard a mount point

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fs flushmount [B<-path> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]]  [B<-help>]

fs flushm [B<-p> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<fs flushmount> command removes from the cache all information
associated with each mount point named by the B<-path> argument. The next
time an application accesses the mount point, the Cache Manager
fetches the most current version of it from the File Server. Data
cached from the associated volume is not affected.

The command's intended use is to discard information about mount
points that has become corrupted in the cache. (The Cache Manager
periodically refreshes cached mount points, but the only other way to
discard them immediately is to reinitialize the Cache Manager by
rebooting the machine.) Symptoms of a corrupted mount point included
garbled output from the C<fs lsmount> command, and failed attempts to
change directory to or list the contents of a mount point.

To flush cached data rather than a mount point, use the C<fs flush> or C<fs
flushvolume> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-path> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]

Names each mount point to flush from the cache. Partial
pathnames are interpreted relative to the current working
directory, which is also the default value if this argument is
omitted.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command flushes from the cache the mount point for user
B<pat>'s home directory:

    fs flushm /afs/abc.com/usr/pat

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the B<l> (B<lookup>) permission on the ACL of the root
directory of the volume that houses the file or directory named by the
B<-path> argument, and on the ACL of each directory that precedes it in
the pathname.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_flush(1)>,
L<fs_flushvolume(1)>,
L<fs_lsmount(1)>

=cut
