=head1 NAME

fs flush - Forces the Cache Manager to discard a cached file or directory

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fs flush [B<-path> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]]  [B<-help>]

fs flush [B<-p> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<fs flush> command removes from the cache all data and status
information associated with each specified file or directory. The next
time an application requests data from the flushed directory or file,
the Cache Manager fetches the most current version from a File Server,
along with a new callback (if necessary) and associated status
information. This command has no effect on two types of data:

=over

=item 1.

Data in application program buffers

=item 2.

Data that has been changed locally and written to the cache but
not yet written to the copy on the file server machine

=back

To flush all data in the cache that was fetched from the same volume
as a specified file or directory, use the C<fs flushvolume> command. To
flush a corrupted mount point, use the C<fs flushmount> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-path> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]

Names each file or directory to flush from the cache. If it is
a directory, only the directory element itself is flushed, not
data cached from files or subdirectories that reside in it.
Partial pathnames are interpreted relative to the current
working directory, which is also the default value if this
argument is omitted.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command flushes from the cache the file B<projectnotes> in
the current working directory and all data from the subdirectory
B<plans>:

    fs flush -path projectnotes ./plans/*

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the B<l> (B<lookup>) permission on the ACL of the root
directory of the volume that houses the file or directory named by the
B<-path> argument, and on the ACL of each directory that precedes it in
the pathname.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_flushmount(1)>,
L<fs_flushvolume(1)>

=cut
