=head1 NAME

fs getcacheparms - Displays the current size of the cache and the amount being used

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fs getcacheparms [B<-help>]

fs getca [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<fs getcacheparms> command displays the current size of the cache
(which can be in memory or on disk), and the amount currently in use.

The reported statistics are from kernel memory, so the reported size
can differ from the setting specified in the B</usr/vice/etc/cacheinfo>
file on a machine using a disk cache, if the C<fs setcachesize> command
has been used to alter cache size.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output reports

AFS using I<amount used> of the cache's available I<size> 1K byte blocks.

where I<amount used> is the number of kilobyte blocks currently used to
cache data and status information, and I<size> is the total current cache
size.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows the output on a machine with a 25000
kilobyte cache.

    fs getcacheparms
   AFS using 22876 of the cache's available 25000 1K byte blocks.

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_setcachesize(1)>

=cut
