=head1 NAME

fs getcellstatus - Reports whether the machine can run setuid programs from a specified
cell

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fs getcellstatus B<-cell> I<cell name> [I<cell name> ...]  [B<-help>]

fs getce B<-c> I<cell name> [I<cell name> ...]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<fs getcellstatus> command reports whether the Cache Manager allows
programs fetched from each specified cell to run with setuid
permission. To set a cell's setuid status, use the C<fs setcell> command;
its reference page fully describes how AFS treats setuid programs.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-cell> I<cell name> [I<cell name> ...]

Names each cell for which to report setuid status. Provide the
fully qualified domain name, or a shortened form that
disambiguates it from the other cells listed in the local
B</usr/vice/etc/CellServDB> file.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output reports one of the following two values as appropriate:

Cell I<cell> status: setuid allowed

Cell I<cell> status: no setuid allowed

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example indicates that programs from the cell B<abc.com>
are not allowed to run with setuid permission.

    fs getcellstatus abc.com
   Cell abc.com status: no setuid allowed

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<CellServDB_client_version(1)>,
L<fs_setcell(1)>

=cut
