=head1 NAME

fs help - Displays the syntax of specified C<fs> commands or lists functional
descriptions of all C<fs> commands

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fs help [B<-topic> I<help string> [I<help string> ...]]  [B<-help>]

fs h [B<-t> I<help string> [I<help string> ...]]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<fs help> command displays the complete online help entry (short
description and syntax statement) for each command operation code
specified by the B<-topic> argument. If the B<-topic> argument is omitted,
the output includes the first line (name and short description) of the
online help entry for every C<fs> command.

To display every C<fs> command whose name or short description includes a
specified keyword, use the C<fs apropos> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-topic> I<help string> [I<help string> ...]

Indicates each command for which to display the complete online
help entry. Omit the C<fs> part of the command name, providing
only the operation code (for example, specify C<setacl>, not C<fs
setacl>). If this argument is omitted, the output briefly
describes every C<fs> command.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The online help entry for each C<fs> command consists of the following
two or three lines:

=over

=item *

The first line names the command and briefly describes its
function.

=item *

The second line lists aliases for the command, if any.

=item *

The final line, which begins with the string Usage, lists the
command's options in the prescribed order. Online help entries use
the same symbols (for example, brackets) as the reference pages in
this document.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command displays the online help entry for the C<fs setacl>
command:

    fs help setacl
   fs setacl: set access control list
   aliases: sa
   Usage: fs setacl -dir <directory>+ -acl <access list entries>+ 
   [-clear] [-negative] [-help]

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs(1)>,
L<fs_apropos(1)>

=cut
