=head1 NAME

fs listcells - Displays the database server machines in each cell known to the Cache
Manager

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fs listcells [B<-numeric>]  [B<-help>]

fs listc [B<-n>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<fs listcells> command formats and displays the list of the database
server machines that the Cache Manager stores in kernel memory for its
home cell and foreign cells.

At each reboot of the client machine, the Cache Manager copies the
contents of B</usr/vice/etc/CellServDB> into kernel memory. To modify the
list between reboots, use the C<fs newcell> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-numeric>

Displays each database server machine's IP address rather than
hostname.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output includes a line for each cell included in the Cache
Manager's kernel memory list, in the following format:

Cell I<cell> on hosts I<database server machines>

The Cache Manager stores IP addresses, but by default has them
translated to hostnames before reporting them, by passing them to the
cell's name service (such as the Domain Name Service or a local host
table). The name service sometimes returns hostnames in uppercase
letters, or an IP address if it cannot resolve a name.

Using the B<-numeric> flag bypasses the translation to hostnames, which
can result in significantly faster production of output. The output
includes IP addresses only.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows output for several cells as illustrations
of the different formats for machine names:

    fs listcells
   Cell abc.com on hosts fs1.abc.com fs2.abc.com fs3.abc.com
   Cell stateu.edu on hosts DB1.FS.STATEU.EDU
      DB2.FS.STATEU.EDU DB3.FS.STATEU.EDU
   Cell def.gov on hosts 138.255.0.2 sv3.def.gov

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<CellServDB_client_version(1)>,
L<fs_newcell(1)>

=cut
