=head1 NAME

fs lsmount - Reports the volume for which a directory is the mount point.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fs lsmount B<-dir> I<directory> [I<directory> ...]  [B<-help>]

fs ls B<-d> I<directory> [I<directory> ...]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<fs lsmount> command reports the volume for which each specified
directory is a mount point, or indicates with an error message that a
directory is not a mount point or is not in AFS.

To create a mount point, use the C<fs mkmount> command. To remove one,
use the C<fs rmmount> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-dir> I<directory> [I<directory> ...]

Names the directory that serves as a mount point for a volume.
The last element in the pathname provided must be an actual
name, not a shorthand notation such as one or two periods (. or
..).

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

If the specified directory is a mount point, the output is of the
following form:

'I<directory>' is a mount point for volume 'I<volume name>'

where

=over

=item *

A number sign (#) precedes the I<volume name> string for a regular
mount point.

=item *

A percent sign (%) precedes the I<volume name> string for a
read/write mount point.

=item *

A cell name and colon (:) follow the number or percent sign and
precede the I<volume name> string for a cellular mount point.

=back

The L<fs_mkmount(1)> reference page explains how the Cache Manager
interprets each of the three types of mount points.

If the directory is a symbolic link to a mount point, the output is of
the form:

'I<directory>' is a symbolic link, leading to a mount point for volume 'I<volume
name>'

If the directory is not a mount point or is not in AFS, the output
reads:

'I<directory>' is not a mount point.

If the output is garbled, it is possible that the mount point has
become corrupted in the local AFS client cache. Use the C<fs flushmount>
command to discard it, which forces the Cache Manager to refetch the
mount point.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows the mount point for the home directory of
user B<smith>:

    fs lsmount /afs/abc.com/usr/smith
   '/afs/abc.com/usr/smith' is a mount point for volume '#user.smith'

The following example shows both the regular and read/write mount
points for the ABC Corporation cell's C<root.cell> volume.

    fs lsmount /afs/abc.com
   '/afs/abc.com' is a mount point for volume '#root.cell'

    fs lsmount /afs/.abc.com
   '/afs/.abc.com' is a mount point for volume '%root.cell'

The following example shows a cellular mount point: the State
University cell's C<root.cell> volume as mounted in the ABC Corporation
cell's tree.

    fs lsmount /afs/stateu.edu
   '/afs/stateu.edu' is a mount point for volume '#stateu.edu:root.cell'

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the B<l> (B<lookup>) permission on the ACL of the root
directory of the volume that houses the file or directory named by the
B<-dir> argument, and on the ACL of each directory that precedes it in
the pathname.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_flushmount(1)>,
L<fs_mkmount(1)>,
L<fs_rmmount(1)>

=cut
