=head1 NAME

fs listquota - Displays quota information for the volume containing a file or
directory.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fs listquota [B<-path> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]]  [B<-help>]

fs listq [B<-p> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]]  [B<-h>]

fs lq [B<-p> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<fs listquota> command displays information about the volume
containing each specified directory or file (its name, quota, and
amount of disk space used), along with an indicator of the percentage
of space used on the host partition.

To display more information about the host partition, use the C<fs
examine> command.

To set volume quota, use the fs setquota or C<fs setvol> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-path> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]

Names a file or directory that resides in the volume about
which to produce output. Partial pathnames are interpreted
relative to the current working directory, which is also the
default value if this argument is omitted.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output displays information about the volume that houses each
specified directory or file, in a tabular format that uses the
following headers:

=over

=item B<Volume Name>

The name of the volume.

=item B<Quota>

The volume's quota in kilobytes, or the string no limit to
indicate an unlimited quota.

=item B<Used>

The number of kilobytes of quota used.

=item B<% Used>

The percentage of the volume's quota that is used (the Used
statistic divided by the Quota statistic, times 100).

=item B<Partition>

The percentage of space used on the partition that houses the
volume. Although not directly related to how much of the user's
quota is used, it is reported because a full partition can
cause writing of data back to the volume to fail even when the
volume has not reached its quota.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows the output for the volume B<user.smith>:

    fs listquota -path /afs/abc.com/usr/smith
   Volume Name     Quota    Used    % Used   Partition
   user.smith      15000    5071       34%         86%

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the B<l> (B<lookup>) permission on the ACL of the root
directory of the volume that houses the file or directory named by the
B<-path> argument, and on the ACL of each directory that precedes it in
the pathname.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_diskfree(1)>,
L<fs_examine(1)>,
L<fs_quota(1)>,
L<fs_setquota(1)>,
L<fs_setvol(1)>

=cut
