=head1 NAME

fs messages - Sets whether the Cache Manager writes log messages

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fs messages [B<-show> I<[user|console|all|none]>]  [B<-help>]

fs me [B<-s> I<[user|console|all|none]>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<fs messages> command controls whether the Cache Manager displays
status and warning messages on user screens, the client machine
console, on both, or on neither.

There are two types of Cache Manager messages:

=over

=item *

User messages provide user-level status and warning information,
and the Cache Manager directs them to user screens.

=item *

Console messages provide system-level status and warning
information, and the Cache Manager directs them to the client
machine's designated console.

=back

Disabling messaging completely is not recommended, because the
messages provide useful status and warning information.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-show> I<[user|console|all|none]>

Specifies the types of messages to display. Choose one of the
following values:

=over

=item B<user>

Send user messages to user screens

=item B<console>

Send console messages to the console

=item B<all>

Send user messages to user screens and console messages
to the console (the default if the B<-show> argument is
omitted)

=item B<none>

Do not send any messages to user screens or the console

=back

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command instructs the Cache Manager to display both
types of messages:

    fs messages -show all

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be logged in as the local superuser B<root>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<afsd(1)>

=cut
