=head1 NAME

fs rmmount - Removes a mount point

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fs rmmount B<-dir> I<directory> [I<directory> ...]  [B<-help>]

fs rm B<-d> I<directory> [I<directory> ...]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<fs rmmount> command removes the mount point named by the B<-dir>
argument from the file system. The corresponding volume remains on its
host partition or partitions, but is inaccessible if there are no
other mount points for it.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-dir> I<directory> [I<directory> ...]

Names the mount point to delete from the file system. The last
element in the pathname must be an actual name, not a shorthand
notation such as "dot" (.) or "dot dot" (..).

Specify the read/write path to the directory, to avoid the
failure that results from attempting to delete a mount point
from a read-only volume. By convention, the read/write path is
indicated by placing a period before the cell name at the
pathname's second level (for example, B</afs/.abc.com>). For
further discussion of the concept of read/write and read-only
paths through the filespace, see the L<fs_mkmount(1)> reference page.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command removes the mount points B<jones> and B<terry> from
the current working directory (the B</afs/abc.com/usr> directory).

    fs rmmount jones terry

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the B<d> (B<delete>) permission on the ACL of the
directory that houses each mount point.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_lsmount(1)>,
L<fs_mkmount(1)>

=cut
