=head1 NAME

fs setclientaddrs - Sets the client interfaces to register with the File Server

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fs setclientaddrs [B<-address> I<client network interfaces> [I<client network interfaces> ...]]  [B<-help>]

fs setcl [B<-a> I<client network interfaces> [I<client network interfaces> ...]]  [B<-h>]

fs sc [B<-a> I<client network interfaces> [I<client network interfaces> ...]]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<fs setclientaddrs> command defines the IP addresses of the
interfaces that the local Cache Manager registers with a File Server
when first establishing a connection to it.

The File Server uses the addresses when it initiates a remote
procedure call (RPC) to the Cache Manager (as opposed to responding to
an RPC sent by the Cache Manager). There are two common circumstances
in which the File Server initiates RPCs: when it breaks callbacks and
when it pings the client machine to verify that the Cache Manager is
still accessible.

The list of interfaces specified with this command replaces the list
that the Cache Manager constructs and records in kernel memory as it
initializes. At that time, if the file B</usr/vice/etc/NetInfo> exists on
the client machine's local disk, the Cache Manager uses its contents
as the basis for the list of interfaces addresses. If the file does
not exist, the Cache Manager instead uses the network interfaces
configured with the operating system. It then removes from the list
any address included in the local B</usr/vice/etc/NetRestrict> file. It
records the final list in kernel memory. (An administrator must create
the B<NetInfo> and B<NetRestrict> files; there are no default versions of
them.)

If an RPC to that interface fails, the File Server simultaneously
sends RPCs to all of the other interfaces in the list, to learn which
of them are still available. Whichever interface replies first is the
one to which the File Server then sends pings and RPCs to break
callbacks.

To list the interfaces that the Cache Manager is currently registering
with File Servers, use the C<fs getclientaddrs> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-address> I<client network interfaces> [I<client network interfaces> ...]

Specifies each IP address to place in the list of interfaces,
in dotted decimal format. Hostnames are not acceptable.
Separate each address with one or more spaces.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The message:

Adding I<interface>

confirms that each new interface was added to the Cache Manager's
list. The address appears in hexadecimal format to match the notation
used in the File Server log, B</usr/afs/logs/FileLog>.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example sets the two interfaces that the Cache Manager
registers with File Servers.

    fs setclientaddrs 191.255.105.68 191.255.108.84
   Adding 0xbfff6944
   Adding 0xbfff6c54

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be logged in as the local superuser B<root>.

=head1 CAVEATS

The list specified with this command persists in kernel memory only
until the client machine reboots. To preserve it across reboots,
either list the interfaces in the local B</usr/vice/etc/NetInfo> file, or
place the appropriate C<fs setclientaddrs> command in the machine's AFS
initialization script.

Changes made with this command do not propagate automatically to File
Servers to which the Cache Manager has already established a
connection. To force such File Servers to use the revised list, either
reboot each file server machine, or change the B<NetInfo> file and reboot
the client machine.

The C<fs> command interpreter verifies that each of the addresses
specified as a value for the B<-address> argument is actually configured
with the operating system on the client machine. If it is not, the
command fails with an error message that marks the address as a
Nonexistent interface.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<NetInfo_client_version(1)>,
L<NetRestrict_client_version(1)>,
L<fileserver(1)>,
L<fs_getclientaddrs(1)>

=cut
