=head1 NAME

fs setquota - Sets the maximum quota for the volume containing a file or directory

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fs setquota [B<-path> I<dir/file path>]  B<-max> I<max quota in kbytes>  [B<-help>]

fs setq [B<-p> I<dir/file path>]  B<-m> I<max quota in kbytes>  [B<-h>]

fs sq [B<-p> I<dir/file path>]  B<-m> I<max quota in kbytes>  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<fs setquota> command sets the quota (maximum possible size) of the
read/write volume that contains the directory or file named by the
B<-path> argument.

To set the quota on multiple volumes at the same time, use the C<fs
setvol> command.

To display a volume's quota, use the C<fs examine>, C<fs listquota> or C<fs
quota> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-path> I<dir/file path>

Names the directory or file for which to set the host volume's
quota. Partial pathnames are interpreted relative to the
current working directory, which is also the default value if
this argument is omitted.

Specify the read/write path to the file or directory, to avoid
the failure that results from attempting to change a read-only
volume. By convention, the read/write path is indicated by
placing a period before the cell name at the pathname's second
level (for example, B</afs/.abc.com>). For further discussion of
the concept of read/write and read-only paths through the
filespace, see the L<fs_mkmount(1)> reference page.

=item B<-max> I<max quota in kbytes>

Sets the maximum amount of file server disk space the volume
can occupy. Specify the number of one-kilobyte blocks as a
positive integer (B<1024> is one megabyte). A value of B<0> sets an
unlimited quota, but the size of the disk partition that houses
the volume places an absolute limit on the volume's size.

If the B<-path> argument is omitted (to set the quota of the
volume housing the current working directory), the B<-max> switch
must be included with this argument.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command imposes a maximum quota of 3000 kilobytes on the
volume that houses the B</afs/abc.com/usr/smith> directory:

    fs setquota -path /afs/abc.com/usr/smith -max 3000

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must belong to the B<system:administrators> group.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_examine(1)>,
L<fs_listquota(1)>,
L<fs_quota(1)>,
L<fs_mkmount(1)>,
L<fs_setvol(1)>

=cut
