=head1 NAME

fs sysname - Reports or sets the CPU/operating system type

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fs sysname [B<-newsys> I<new sysname>]  [B<-help>]

fs sy [B<-n> I<new sysname>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<fs sysname> command sets or displays the local machine's
CPU/operating system type as recorded in kernel memory. The Cache
Manager substitutes the string for the I<@sys> variable which can occur
in AFS pathnames; the IBM AFS Quick Beginnings and IBM AFS
Administration Guide explain how using I<@sys> can simplify cell
configuration. It is best to use it sparingly, however, because it can
make the effect of changing directories unpredictable.

The command always applies to the local machine only. If issued on an
NFS client machine accessing AFS via the NFS/AFS Translator, the
string is set or reported for the NFS client machine. The Cache
Manager on the AFS client machine serving as the NFS client's NFS/AFS
translator machine stores the value in its kernel memory, and so can
provide the NFS client with the proper version of program binaries
when the user issues commands for which the pathname to the binaries
includes I<@sys>. There is a separate record for each user logged into
the NFS client, which implies that if a user adopts a new identity
(UNIX UID) during a login session on the NFS client--perhaps by using
the UNIX C<su> command--he or she must verify that the correct string is
set for the new identity also.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-newsys> I<new sysname>

Sets the CPU/operating system indicator string for the local
machine. If this argument is omitted, the output displays the
current setting instead. AFS uses a standardized set of
strings; consult the IBM AFS Quick Beginnings or AFS Release
Notes.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

When the B<-newsys> argument is omitted, the output reports the machine's
system type in the following format:

Current sysname is 'I<system_type>'

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows the output produced on a Sun SPARCStation
running Solaris 5.7:

    fs sysname
   Current sysname is 'sun4x_57'

The following command defines a machine to be a IBM RS/6000 running
AIX 4.2:

    fs sysname -newsys rs_aix42

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

To display the current setting, no privilege is required. To include
the B<-newsys> argument on an AFS client machine, the issuer must be
logged in as the local superuser B<root>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_exportafs(1)>,
L<sys(1)>,
IBM AFS Quick Beginnings,
IBM AFS Administration Guide

=cut
