=head1 NAME

fs setvol - Set maximum quota and messages for the volume containing a file or
directory

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fs setvol [B<-path> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]]  [B<-max> I<disk space quota in 1K units>]
[B<-offlinemsg> I<offline message>]  [B<-help>]

fs setv [B<-p> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]]  [B<-ma> I<disk space quota in 1K  units>]
[B<-o> I<offline message>]  [B<-h>]

fs sv [B<-p> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]]  [B<-ma> I<disk space quota in 1K units>]
[B<-o> I<offline message>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<fs setvol> command sets the quota (maximum possible size) of the
read/write volume that contains each directory or file named by the
B<-path> argument. To associate a message with the volume which then
appears in the output of the C<fs examine> command, include the
B<-offlinemsg> argument.

To display all of the settings made with this command, use the C<fs
examine> command. The C<fs listquota> command reports a fileset's quota,
and the C<fs quota> command the percent of quota used.

To set quota on one volume at a time, use the C<fs setquota> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-path> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]

Names each file or directory for which to set the host volume's
quota and offline message. Partial pathnames are interpreted
relative to the current working directory, which is also the
default value if this argument is omitted.

Specify the read/write path to the file or directory, to avoid
the failure that results from attempting to change a read-only
volume. By convention, the read/write path is indicated by
placing a period before the cell name at the pathname's second
level (for example, B</afs/.abc.com>). For further discussion of
the concept of read/write and read-only paths through the
filespace, see the L<fs_mkmount(1)> reference page.

=item B<-max> I<disk space quota in 1K units>

Sets the maximum amount of file server disk space the volume
can occupy. Provide a positive integer to indicate the number
of one-kilobyte blocks (B<1024> is one megabyte). A value of B<0>
sets an unlimited quota, but the size of the disk partition
that houses the volume places an absolute limit on the volume's
size.

If the B<-path> argument is omitted (so that the command sets the
quota of the volume housing the current working directory), the
B<-max> switch must be provided.

=item B<-offlinemsg> I<offline message>

Associates a message with the volume which then appears in the
output of the C<fs examine> command. Its intended use is to
explain why the volume is currently offline.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command imposes a 6500 kilobyte quota on the volumes
mounted at the home directories B</afs/abc.com/usr/smith> and
B</afs/abc.com/usr/pat>:

    cd /afs/abc.com/usr

    fs setvol -path smith pat -max 6500

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must belong to the B<system:administrators> group.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_examine(1)>,
L<fs_listquota(1)>,
L<fs_mkmount(1)>,
L<fs_quota(1)>,
L<fs_setquota(1)>

=cut
