=head1 NAME

fs whereis - Reports the name of each file server machine housing a file or
directory

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fs whereis [B<-path> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]]  [B<-help>]

fs whe [B<-p> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<fs whereis> command returns the name of each file server machine
that houses the volume containing each directory or file named by the
B<-path> argument.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-path> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]

Names each AFS file or directory for which to return the host
file server machine. Partial pathnames are interpreted relative
to the current working directory, which is also the default
value if this argument is omitted.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output includes a line for each specified directory or file. It
names the file server machine on which the volume that houses the
specified directory or file resides. A list of multiple machines
indicates that the directory or file is in a replicated volume.

Machine names usually have a suffix indicating their cell membership.
If the cell is not clear, use the C<fs whichcell> command to display the
cell in which the directory or file resides. To display the cell
membership of the local machine, use the C<fs wscell> command.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example indicates that volume housing the directory
B</afs/abc.com> resides is replicated on both B<fs1.abc.com> and
B<fs3.abc.com>:

    fs whereis -path /afs/abc.com
   File /afs/abc.com is on hosts fs1.abc.com fs3.abc.com

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_whichcell(1)>,
L<fs_wscell(1)>

=cut
