=head1 NAME

fs whichcell - Returns the name of the cell to which a file or directory belongs

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fs whichcell [B<-path> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]]  [B<-help>]

fs whi  [B<-p> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<fs whichcell> command returns the name of the cell in which the
volume that houses each indicated directory or file resides.

To display the file server machine on which the volume housing a
directory or file resides, use the C<fs whichcell> command. To display
the cell membership of the local machine, use the C<fs wscell> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-path> I<dir/file path> [I<dir/file path> ...]

Names each AFS file or directory for which to return the cell
membership. Partial pathnames are interpreted relative to the
current working directory, which is also the default value if
this argument is omitted.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output includes a line for each directory or file, naming the cell
to which the volume that houses the directory or file resides.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows that the current working directory resides
in a volume in the ABC Corporation cell:

    fs whichcell
   File . lives in cell 'abc.com'

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_wscell(1)>,
L<fs_whereis(1)>

=cut
