=head1 NAME

fstrace lsset - Reports the status of an event set

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fstrace lsset [B<-set> I<set_name> [I<set_name> ...]]  [B<-help>]

fstrace lss [B<-s> I<set_name> [I<set_name> ...]]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<fstrace lsset> command displays a list of the available event sets
and reports their current status (active, inactive, or dormant).

To change an event set's status, use the C<fstrace setset> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-set> I<set_name> [I<set_name> ...]

Names the event set for which to display the status. The only
acceptable value is B<cm>, which is also the default if this
argument is omitted.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output lists the available event sets and the status of each, in
the following format:

   Available sets:
   cm {active | inactive | dormant}

where

=over

=item B<active>

Indicates that tracing is enabled for the event set, and kernel
memory allocated for the corresponding trace log.

=item B<inactive>

Indicates that tracing is temporarily disabled for the event
set, but kernel memory still allocated for the corresponding
trace log.

=item B<dormant>

Indicates that tracing is disabled for the event set, and no
kernel memory allocated for the corresponding trace log.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example displays the available event set and its status:

    fstrace lsset
   Available sets:
   cm active

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be logged in as the local superuser B<root>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fstrace(1)>,
L<fstrace_setset(1)>

=cut
