=head1 NAME

fstrace help - Displays the syntax of specified C<fstrace> commands or lists functional
descriptions of all C<fstrace> commands

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fstrace help [B<-topic> I<help string> [I<help string> ...]]  [B<-help>]

fstrace h [B<-t> I<help string> [I<help string> ...]]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<fstrace help> command displays the complete online help entry
(short description and syntax statement) for each command operation
code specified by the B<-topic> argument. If the B<-topic> argument is
omitted, the output includes the first line (name and short
description) of the online help entry for every C<fstrace> command.

To list every C<fstrace> command whose name or short description includes
a specified keyword, use the C<fstrace apropos> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-topic> I<help string> [I<help string> ...]

Indicates each command for which to display the complete online
help entry. Omit the C<fstrace> part of the command name,
providing only the operation code (for example, specify C<clear>,
not C<fstrace clear>). If this argument is omitted, the output
briefly describes every C<fstrace> command.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The online help entry for each C<fstrace> command consists of two or
three lines:

=over

=item *

The first line names the command and briefly describes its
function.

=item *

The second line lists aliases for the command, if any.

=item *

The final line, which begins with the string C<Usage>, lists the
command's options in the prescribed order. Online help entries use
the same symbols (for example, brackets) as the reference pages in
this document.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command displays the online help entry for the C<fstrace
setset> command:

    fstrace help -topic setset
   fstrace setset: set state of event sets
   Usage: fstrace setset [-set <set_name>+] [-active] [-inactive]
   [-dormant] [-help]

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fstrace(1)>,
L<fstrace_apropos(1)>

=cut
