=head1 NAME

fstrace clear - Clears the trace log

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fstrace clear [B<-set> I<set_name> [I<set_name> ...]]  [B<-log> I<log_name> [I<log_name> ...]]  [B<-help>]

fstrace c [B<-s> I<set_name> [I<set_name> ...]]  [B<-l> I<log_name> [I<log_name> ...]]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<fstrace clear> command erases the contents of the trace log from
kernel memory, but leaves kernel memory allocated for the log.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-set> I<set_name> [I<set_name> ...]

Names the event set for which to clear the associated trace
log. The only acceptable value is B<cm> (for which the associated
trace log is B<cmfx>). Provide either this argument or the B<-log>
argument, or omit both to clear the B<cmfx> log by default.

=item B<-log> I<log_name> [I<log_name> ...]

Names the trace log to clear. The only acceptable value is
B<cmfx>. Provide either this argument or the B<-set> argument, or
omit both to clear the B<cmfx> log by default.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command clears the B<cmfx> trace log on the local machine:

    fstrace clear

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be logged in as the local superuser B<root>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fstrace(1)>,
L<fstrace_lslog(1)>,
L<fstrace_lsset(1)>

=cut
