=head1 NAME

fstrace lslog - Displays information about a log

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fstrace lslog [B<-set> I<set_name> [I<set_name> ...]]  [B<-log> I<log_name>]  [B<-long>]  [B<-help>]

fstrace lsl [B<-s> I<set_name> [I<set_name> ...]]  [B<-log> I<log_name>]  [B<-lon>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<fstrace lslog> command reports whether the B<cmfx> log is available
for use. If the B<-long> argument is included, the output reports the
log's defined size, and whether that amount of space is currently
allocated in kernel memory or not.

To change the B<cmfx> trace log's size, use the C<fstrace setlog> command.
To display or set whether space is allocated for it in kernel memory,
use the C<fstrace lsset> or C<fstrace setset> command to display or set the
state of the corresponding B<cm> event set, respectively.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-set> I<set_name> [I<set_name> ...]

Names the event set for which to display information about the
corresponding trace log. The only acceptable value is B<cm> (for
which the associated trace log is B<cmfx>). Provide either this
argument or the B<-log> argument, or omit both to display
information about the B<cmfx> log by default.

=item B<-log> I<log_name>

Names the trace log about which to report. The only acceptable
value is B<cmfx>. Provide either this argument or the B<-set>
argument, or omit both to report on the B<cmfx> log by default.

=item B<-long>

Reports the defined size of the log in kilobyte units and
whether that amount of space is currently allocated in kernel
memory.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

By default, the C<fstrace lslog> command displays only the name of the
available log, B<cmfx>, in the following format:

   Available logs:
   cmfx

When the B<-long> flag is included, the output also reports the defined
size of the log in kilobytes, and whether or not that amount of space
is currently allocated in kernel memory, in the following format:

   Available logs:
   cmfx : log_size kbytes (allocated  |  unallocated)

The C<allocated> state indicates that the indicated number of kilobytes
is reserved for the B<cmfx> trace log in kernel memory. The B<cm> event
set's state is either active or inactive, as reported by the C<fstrace
lsset> command, and set by the C<fstrace setset> command's B<-active> or
B<-inactive> flags respectively.

The C<unallocated> state indicates that no kernel memory is currently
reserved for the B<cmfx> trace log. The B<cm> event set's state is dormant,
as reported by the C<fstrace lsset> command and set by the C<fstrace setset>
command's B<-dormant> flag. If the event set's state is later changed to
active or inactive, the number of kilobytes indicated as I<log_size> are
again allocated in kernel memory.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example uses the -long flag to display information about
the B<cmfx> log:

    fstrace lslog -log cmfx -long
   Available logs:
   cmfx : 60 kbytes (allocated)

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be logged in as the local superuser B<root>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fstrace(1)>,
L<fstrace_lsset(1)>,
L<fstrace_setlog(1)>

=cut
