=head1 NAME

fstrace setlog - Sets the size of a trace log

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fstrace setlog [B<-log> I<log_name> [I<log_name> ...]]  B<-buffersize> I<1-kilobyte_units>  [B<-help>]

fstrace setl [B<-l> I<log_name> [I<log_name> ...]]  B<-b> I<1-kilobyte_units>  [B<-h>]

fstrace sl [B<-l> I<log_name> [I<log_name> ...]]  B<-b> I<1-kilobyte_units>  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<fstrace setlog> command defines the number of kilobytes of kernel
memory allocated for the B<cmfx> trace log. If kernel memory is currently
allocated, the command clears the current log and creates a new log
buffer of the specified size.

To display the current defined size of the log buffer, issue the
C<fstrace lslog> command with the B<-long> argument. To control whether the
indicated amount of space is actually allocated, use the C<fstrace
setset> command to set the status of the cm event set; to display the
event set's status, use the C<fstrace lsset> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-log> I<log_name> [I<log_name> ...]

Names trace log for which to set the size. The only acceptable
value is B<cmfx>, which is also the default if this argument is
omitted.

=item B<-buffersize> I<1-kilobyte_units>

Specifies the number of 1-kilobyte blocks of kernel memory to
allocate for the trace log.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command allocated 80 KB of kernel memory for the B<cmfx>
trace log:

    fstrace setlog -log cmfx -buffersize 80

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be logged in as the local superuser B<root>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fstrace(1)>,
L<fstrace_lslog(1)>,
L<fstrace_lsset(1)>,
L<fstrace_setset(1)>

=cut
