=head1 NAME

fstrace setset - Sets the status of an event set

=head1 SYNOPSIS

fstrace setset [B<-set> I<set_name> [I<set_name> ...]]  [B<-active>]  [B<-inactive>]  [B<-dormant>]  [B<-help>]


fs set [B<-s> I<set_name> [I<set_name> ...]]  [B<-a>]  [B<-i>]  [B<-d>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<fstrace setset> command sets the status of the B<cm> kernel event set
on the local machine, which determines whether trace messages are
recorded in the log buffer in kernel memory.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-set> I<set_name> [I<set_name> ...]

Names the event set for which to set the status. The only
acceptable value is B<cm>, which is also the default if this argument
is omitted.

=item B<-active>

Enables tracing for the event set and allocates kernel memory
for the associated trace log buffer. Provide one of this flag,
the B<-inactive> flag, or the B<-dormant> flag.

=item B<-inactive>

Temporarily disables tracing for the event set, but does not
change the allocation of kernel memory for the associated trace
log buffer. Provide one of this flag, the B<-active> flag, or the
B<-dormant> flag.

=item B<-dormant>

Disables tracing for the event set and frees the kernel memory
previously allocated for the associated trace log buffer.
Provide one of this flag, the B<-active> flag, or the B<-inactive>
flag.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example sets the B<cm> event set's status to B<inactive>:

    fstrace setset -set cm -inactive

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be logged in as the local superuser B<root>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fstrace(1)>,
L<fstrace_lsset(1)>,
L<fstrace_setlog(1)>

=cut
