=head1 NAME

kas help - Displays the syntax of each specified C<kas> command or lists functional
descriptions of all C<kas> commands

=head1 SYNOPSIS

kas help [B<-topic> I<help string> [I<help string> ...]]  [B<-help>]

kas h [B<-t> I<help string> [I<help string> ...]]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<kas help> command displays the complete online help entry (short
description and syntax statement) for each command operation code
specified by the B<-topic> argument. If the B<-topic> argument is omitted,
the output includes the first line (name and short description) of the
online help entry for every C<kas> command.

To list every C<kas> command whose name or short description includes a
specified keyword, use the C<kas apropos> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-topic> I<help string> [I<help string> ...]

Indicates each command for which to display the complete online
help entry. Omit the kas part of the command name, providing
only the operation code (for example, specify B<setpassword>, not
B<kas setpassword>). If this argument is omitted, the output
briefly describes every C<kas> command.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The online help entry for each C<kas> command consists of the following
two or three lines:

=over

=item *

The first line names the command and briefly describes its
function.

=item *

The second line lists aliases for the command, if any.

=item *

The final line, which begins with the string C<Usage>, lists the
command's options in the prescribed order. Online help entries use
the same symbols (for example, brackets) as the reference pages in
this document.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command displays the online help entry for the C<kas
setpassword> command:

B<    kas help setpassword>
   kas setpassword: set a user's password
   aliases: sp
   Usage: kas setpassword -name <name of user>
   [-new_password <new password>] [-kvno <key version number>]
   [-admin_username <admin principal to use for authentication>]
   [-password_for_admin <password>] [-cell <cell name>]
   [-servers <explicit list of authentication servers>+] [-help]


=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None, and no password is required.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<kas(1)>,
L<kas_apropos(1)>

=cut
