=head1 NAME

kas noauthentication - Discards an authenticated identity in interactive mode

=head1 SYNOPSIS

noauthentication  [B<-help>]

n  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<kas noauthentication> command closes the (presumably authenticated)
connection that the issuer established with one or more Authentication
Server processes when entering interactive mode. It opens a new
unauthenticated connection to each server, assigning the issuer the
unprivileged identity B<anonymous>. It does not actually discard the
user's tokens from the Cache Manager's memory (as the C<unlog> or C<kas
forgetticket> command does). Unless authorization checking is disabled
on each Authentication Server machine, it becomes impossible to
perform any privileged operations within the session established by
this command.

This command is operative only during interactive mode, so omit the
C<kas> command suite name from the command line.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example command discards the authentication information
with which the user entered interactive mode.

ka> B<noauthentication>

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None, and no password is required.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<kas(1)>,
L<kas_forgetticket(1)>,
L<kas_interactive(1)>,
L<unlog(1)>

=cut
