=head1 NAME

kas create - Creates an entry in the Authentication Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

kas create S<B<-name> I<name of user>>
S<[B<-initial_password> I<initial password>]>
S<[B<-admin_username> I<admin principal to use for authentication>]>
S<[B<-password_for_admin> I<admin password>]>
S<[B<-cell> I<cell name>]>
S<[B<-servers> I<explicit list of authentication servers> ...]>
[B<-noauth>]  [B<-help>]

kas c B<-na> I<name of user> S<[B<-i> I<initial password>]>
S<[B<-a> I<admin principal to use for authentication>]>
S<[B<-p> I<admin password>]> S<[B<-c> I<cell name>]>
S<[B<-s> I<explicit list of authentication servers> ...]>  [B<-no>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<kas create> command creates an entry in the Authentication Database
for the user named by the B<-name> argument.

To avoid having the account's initial password echo visibly at the
shell prompt, omit the B<-initial_password> argument; the command
interpreter prompts for the password and does not echo it visibly.
Whether or not B<-initial_password> is omitted, the Authentication Server
converts the password into a form suitable for use as an encryption
key, and records it in the entry's key field.

To alter settings in an Authentication Database entry, use the C<kas
setfields> command. To examine an entry, use the C<kas examine> command.
To list every entry in the database, use the C<kas list> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-name> I<name of user>

Names the new Authentication Database entry. Because it is the
name under which the user logs in, it must obey the
restrictions that many operating systems impose on user names
(usually, to contain no more than eight lowercase letters).

=item B<-initial_password> I<initial password>

Sets the user's password; provide a character string that can
include uppercase and lowercase letters, numerals and
punctuation. The Authentication Server scrambles the string
into an octal string suitable for use as an encryption key
before placing it in the entry's key field. If this argument is
omitted, the command interpreter prompts for the string and
does not echo it visibly.

=item B<-admin_username> I<admin principal to use for authentication>

Specifies the user identity under which to authenticate with
the Authentication Server for execution of the command. For
more details, see the introductory L<kas(1)> reference page.

=item B<-password_for_admin> I<admin password>

Specifies the password of the command's issuer. If it is
omitted (as recommended), the C<kas> command interpreter prompts
for it and does not echo it visibly. For more details, see the
introductory L<kas(1)> reference page.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details,
see the introductory L<kas(1)> reference page.

=item B<-servers> I<explicit list of authentication servers> ...

Names each machine running an Authentication Server with which
to establish a connection. For more details, see the
introductory L<kas(1)> reference page.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity B<anonymous> to the issuer. For
more details, see the introductory L<kas(1)> reference page.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows the prompts that appear when an
administrator logged in as B<admin> creates an Authentication Database
entry for the user B<smith>, and does not include either the
B<-initial_password> or B<-password_for_admin arguments>.

    kas create smith
   Password for admin:
   initial_password:
   Verifying, please re-enter initial_password:

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the C<ADMIN> flag set on his or her Authentication
Database entry.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<kas(1)>,
L<kas_examine(1)>,
L<kas_list(1)>,
L<kas_setfields(1)>

=cut
