=head1 NAME

kas unlock - Unlocks a locked user account

=head1 SYNOPSIS

kas unlock B<-name> I<authentication ID>
[B<-admin_username> I<admin principal to use for authentication>]
[B<-password_for_admin> I<admin password>]  [B<-cell> I<cell name>]
[B<-servers> I<explicit list of authentication servers> ...]
[B<-noauth>]  [B<-help>]

kas u B<-na> I<authentication ID>
[B<-a> I<admin principal to use for authentication>]
[B<-p> I<admin password>]  [B<-c> I<cell name>]
[B<-s> I<explicit list of authentication servers> ...]  [B<-no>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<kas unlock> command unlocks the Authentication Database entry named
by the B<-name> argument. An entry becomes locked when the user exceeds
the limit on failed authentication attempts, generally by providing
the wrong password to either an AFS-modified login utility or the C<klog>
command. Use the C<kas setfields> command to set the limit and the
lockout time, and the C<kas examine> command to examine the settings.

To unlock all locked user accounts at once, shutdown the B<kaserver>
process on every database server machine, and remove the
B</usr/afs/local/kaauxdb> file from each one. The B<kaserver> process
recreates the file as it restarts.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-name> I<authentication ID>

Names the Authentication Database entry to unlock.

=item B<-admin_username> I<admin principal to use for authentication>

Specifies the user identity under which to authenticate with
the Authentication Server for execution of the command. For
more details, see the introductory L<kas(1)> reference page.

=item B<-password_for_admin> I<admin password>

Specifies the password of the command's issuer. If it is
omitted (as recommended), the C<kas> command interpreter prompts
for it and does not echo it visibly. For more details, see the
introductory L<kas(1)> reference page.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details,
see the introductory L<kas(1)> reference page.

=item B<-servers> I<explicit list of authentication servers> ...

Names each machine running an Authentication Server with which
to establish a connection. For more details, see the
introductory L<kas(1)> reference page.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity B<anonymous> to the issuer. For
more details, see the introductory L<kas(1)> reference page.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

In the following example, an administrator using the B<admin> account
unlocks the entry for B<jones>:

B<    kas unlock -name jones -admin_username admin>
   Administrator's (admin) Password:

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the C<ADMIN> flag set on his or her Authentication
Database entry.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<kas(1)>,
L<kas_examine(1)>,
L<kas_setfields(1)>,
L<klog(1)>

=cut
