=head1 NAME

kas delete - Deletes an entry from the Authentication Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

kas delete B<-name> I<name of user>
S<[B<-admin_username> I<admin principal to use for authentication>]>
S<[B<-password_for_admin> I<admin password>]>  S<[B<-cell> I<cell name>]>
S<[B<-servers> I<explicit list of authentication servers> ...]>
[B<-noauth>]  [B<-help>]

kas d B<-na> I<name of user>  [B<-a> I<admin principal to use for authentication>]
[B<-p> I<admin password>]  [B<-c> I<cell name>]
[B<-s> I<explicit list of authentication servers> ...]  [B<-no>]  [B<-h>]

kas rm B<-na> I<name of user>  [B<-a> I<admin principal to use for authentication>]
[B<-p> I<admin password>]  [B<-c> I<cell name>]
[B<-s> I<explicit list of authentication servers> ...]  [B<-no>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<kas delete> command removes from the Authentication Database the
user entry named by the B<-name> argument. The indicated user becomes
unable to log in, or the indicated server becomes unreachable (because
the Authentication Server's Ticket Granting Service module no longer
has a key with which to seal tickets for the server).

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-name> I<name of user>

Names the Authentication Database entry to delete.

=item B<-admin_username> I<admin principal to use for authentication>

Specifies the user identity under which to authenticate with
the Authentication Server for execution of the command. For
more details, see the introductory L<kas(1)> reference page.

=item B<-password_for_admin> I<admin password>

Specifies the password of the command's issuer. If it is
omitted (as recommended), the C<kas> command interpreter prompts
for it and does not echo it visibly. For more details, see the
introductory L<kas(1)> reference page.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details,
see the introductory L<kas(1)> reference page.

=item B<-servers> I<explicit list of authentication servers> ...

Names each machine running an Authentication Server with which
to establish a connection. For more details, see the
introductory L<kas(1)> reference page.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity B<anonymous> to the issuer. For
more details, see the introductory L<kas(1)> reference page.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows the administrative user B<admin> entering
interactive mode to delete three accounts.

    kas
   Password for admin:
   ka> delete smith
   ka> delete pat
   ka> delete terry

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the C<ADMIN> flag set on his or her Authentication
Database entry.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
and Elizabeth Cassell <e_a_c@mailsnare.net>, 2004,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<kas(1)>,
L<kas_create(1)>

=cut
