=head1 NAME

pts chown - Changes the owner of a Protection Database entry

=head1 SYNOPSIS

pts chown B<-name> I<group name>  B<-owner> I<new owner>
[B<-cell> I<cell name>]  [B<-noauth>]  [B<-force>]  [B<-help>]

pts cho B<-na> I<group name>  B<-o> I<new owner>  [B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-no>]  [B<-f>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<pts chown> command designates the user or group named by the B<-owner>
argument as the owner of the group named by the B<-name> argument, and
records the new owner in the owner field of the group's Protection
Database entry.
In the case of regular groups, this command automatically changes the
group name's owner prefix (the part of the group name before the
colon) to match the new owner. If the new owner is itself a group,
then only its owner prefix, not its complete name, becomes the owner
prefix in the new name. The change to the owner prefix does not
propagate to any groups owned by the group, however. To make the owner
prefix of such group-owned groups reflect the new owning group, use
the pts rename command.
It is not possible to change a user or machine entry's owner from the
default set at creation time, the system:administrators group.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-name> I<group name>

Specifies the current name of the group to which to assign a
new owner.

=item B<-owner> I<new owner>

Names the user or group to become the group's owner.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details,
see the introductory L<pts(1)> reference page.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. For
more details, see the introductory L<pts(1)> reference page.

=item B<-force>

Enables the command to continue executing as far as possible
when errors or other problems occur, rather than halting
execution at the first error.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

==back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example changes the owner of the group terry:friends
from the user terry to the user pat. A side effect is that the group
name changes to pat:friends.

    pts chown -name terry:friends -owner pat

The following example changes the owner of the group terry:friends
from the user terry to the group pat:buddies. A side effect is that
the group name changes to pat:friends.

    pts chown -name terry:friends -owner pat:buddies

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must belong to the system:administrators group or currently
own the group.

=head1 CAVEATS

While designating a machine as a group's owner does not cause an
error, it is not recommended. The Protection Server does not extend
the usual privileges of group ownership to users logged onto the
machine.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<pts(1)>,
L<pts_rename(1)>

=cut
