=head1 NAME

pts setmax - Sets the value of the C<max group id> or C<max user id> counter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

pts setmax [B<-group> I<group max>]  [B<-user> I<user max>]  [B<-cell> I<cell name>]
[B<-noauth>]  [B<-force>]  [B<-help>]

pts setm [B<-g> I<group max>]  [B<-u> I<user max>]  [B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-f>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<pts setmax> command sets the value of one or both counters that
track the IDs the Protection Server allocates to new users, machines,
or groups: the C<max user id> counter for the AFS user IDs (AFS UIDs)
assigned to users and machines, and the C<max group id> counter for the
AFS group IDs (AFS GIDs) assigned to groups.

Use the C<pts listmax> command to display the current value of both
counters.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-group> I<group max>

Sets the C<max group id> counter. Precede the value with a hyphen
to indicate that it is negative. When an administrator next
uses the C<pts creategroup> command to create a group entry and
does not include that command's B<-id> argument, the Protection
Server assigns the group an AFS GID one less (more negative)
than this value.

=item B<-user> I<user max>

Sets the C<max user id> counter. When an administrator next uses
the C<pts createuser> command to create a user or machine entry
and does not include that command's B<-id> argument, the
Protection Server assigns the group an AFS UID one greater than
this value.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details,
see the introductory L<pts(1)> reference page.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity B<anonymous> to the issuer. For
more details, see the introductory L<pts(1)> reference page.

=item B<-force>

Enables the command to continue executing as far as possible
when errors or other problems occur, rather than halting
execution at the first error.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command sets the C<max group id> counter to -500 and the
C<max user id> counter to 1000.

    pts setmax -group -500 -user 1000

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must belong to the B<system:administrators> group.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<pts(1)>,
L<pts_creategroup(1)>,
L<pts_createuser(1)>,
L<pts_listmax(1)>

=cut
