=head1 NAME

pts apropos - Displays each help entry containing a keyword string

=head1 SYNOPSIS

pts apropos B<-topic> I<help string>  [B<-help>]

pts ap B<-t> I<help string>  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<pts apropos> command displays the first line of the online help
entry for any pts command that has in its name or short description
the string specified by the B<-topic> argument.
To display the syntax for a command, use the "pts help" command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-topic>

Specifies the keyword string to match, in lowercase letters
only. If the string is more than a single word, surround it
with double quotes ("") or other delimiters.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

==back

=head1 OUTPUT

The first line of a command's online help entry names it and briefly
describes its function. This command displays the first line for any
pts command in which the string specified by the B<-topic> argument is
part of the command name or first line.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command lists all pts commands that include the word
create in their names or short descriptions:

    pts apropos create
    creategroup: create a new group
    createuser: create a new user

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<pts(1)>,
L<pts_help(1)>

=cut
