=head1 NAME

pts removeuser - Removes a user from a Protection Database group

=head1 SYNOPSIS

pts removeuser B<-user> I<user name> [I<user name> ...]
B<-group> I<group name> [I<group name> ...]
[B<-cell> I<cell name>]  [B<-noauth>]  [B<-force>]  [B<-help>]

pts rem B<-u> I<user name> [I<user name> ...]
B<-g> I<group name> [I<group name> ...]
[B<-c> I<cell name>]
[B<-n>]  [B<-f>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<pts removeuser> command removes each user or machine named by the
B<-user> argument from each group named by the B<-group> argument.
To add users to a group, use the pts adduser command. To list group
membership, use the C<pts membership> command. To remove users from a
group and delete the group's entry completely in a single step, use
the C<pts delete> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-name> I<user name> [I<user name> ...]

Specifies the name of each user entry or the IP address
(complete or wildcard-style) of each machine entry to remove.

=item B<-group> I<group name> [I<group name> ...]

Names each group from which to remove members.

=item B<-cell>

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details,
see the introductory L<pts(1)> reference page.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. For
more details, see the introductory L<pts(1)> reference page.

=item B<-force>

Enables the command to continue executing as far as possible
when errors or other problems occur, rather than halting
execution at the first error.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

==back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example removes user smith from the groups staff and
staff:finance. Note that no switch names are necessary because only a
single instance is provided for the first argument (the username).

    pts removeuser smith staff staff:finance

The following example removes three machine entries, which represent
all machines in the ABC Corporation network, from the group bin-prot:

    pts removeuser -user 138.255.0.0 192.12.105.0 192.12.106.0 -group bin-prot

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The required privilege depends on the setting of the fifth privacy
flag in the Protection Database for the group named by the B<-group>
argument (use the pts examine command to display the flags):

=over 4

=item *

If it is the hyphen, only the group's owner and members of the
system:administrators group can remove members.

=item *

If it is lowercase r, members of the group can also remove other
members.
(It is not possible to set the fifth flag to uppercase R.)

=back

=head1 CAVEATS

AFS compiles each user's group membership as he or she authenticates.
Any users who have valid tokens when they are removed from a group
retain the privileges extended to that group's members until they
discard their tokens or reauthenticate.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<pts(1)>,
L<pts_adduser(1)>,
L<pts_examine(1)>,
L<pts_membership(1)>,
L<pts_setfields(1)>

=cut
