=head1 NAME

pts membership - Displays the membership list for a user or group

=head1 SYNOPSIS

pts membership B<-nameorid> I<user or group name or id>
[I<user or group name or id> ...]
[B<-cell> I<cell name>]
[B<-noauth>]  [B<-force>]  [B<-help>]

pts m B<-na> I<user or group name or id>
[I<user or group name or id> ...]
[B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-no>]  [B<-f>]  [B<-h>]

pts groups B<-na> I<user or group name or id>
[I<user or group name or id> ...]
[B<-c> I<cell name>]
[B<-no>] [B<-f>]  [B<-h>]

pts g B<-na> I<user or group name or id>
[I<user or group name or id> ...]
[B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-no>]  [B<-f>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<pts membership> command lists the groups to which each user or
machine specified by the B<-nameorid> argument belongs, or lists the
users and machines that belong to each group specified by the
B<-nameorid> argument.
It is not possible to list the members of the system:anyuser or
system:authuser groups, and they do not appear in the list of groups
to which a user belongs.
To add users or machine to groups, use the pts adduser command; to
remove them, use the pts removeuser command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-nameorid> I<user or group name or id> [I<user or group name or id> ...]

Specifies the name or AFS UID of each user entry, the IP
address (complete or wildcard-style) or AFS UID of each machine
entry, or the name or AFS GID of each group, for which to list
group membership. It is acceptable to mix users, machines, and
groups on the same command line, as well as names and IDs.
Precede the GID of each group with a hyphen to indicate that it
is negative.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details,
see the introductory L<pts(1)> reference page.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. For
more details, see the introductory L<pts(1)> reference page.

=item B<-force>

Enables the command to continue executing as far as possible
when errors or other problems occur, rather than halting
execution at the first error.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

==back

=head1 OUTPUT

For each user and machine, the output begins with the following header
line, followed by a list of the groups to which the user or machine
belongs:

Groups name (id: AFS UID) is a member of:

For each group, the output begins with the following header line,
followed by a list of the users and machines who belong to the group:

Members of group_name (id: AFS GID) are:

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example lists the groups to which the user pat belongs
and the members of the group smith:friends. Note that third privacy
flag for the pat entry was changed from the default hyphen to enable a
non-administrative user to obtain this listing.

    pts membership pat smith:friends

    Groups pat (id: 1144) is a member of:
    smith:friends
    staff
    johnson:project-team
    Members of smith:friends (id: -562) are:
    pat
    terry
    jones
    richard
    thompson

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The required privilege depends on the setting of the third privacy
flag in the Protection Database entry of each user or group indicated
by the B<-nameorid> argument (use the pts examine command to display the
flags):

=over 4

=item *

If it is the hyphen and the B<-nameorid> argument specifies a user,
only the associated user and members of the system:administrators
group can list the groups to which the user belongs.

=item *

If it is the hyphen and the B<-nameorid> argument specifies a
machine, only the members of the system:administrators group can
list the groups to which the machine belongs.

=item *

If it is the hyphen and the B<-nameorid> argument specifies a group,
only the owner of the group and members of the
system:administrators group can list the members of the group.

=item *

If it is lowercase m and the B<-nameorid> argument specifies a user
or machine entry, the meaning is equivalent to the hyphen.

=item *

If it is lowercase m and the B<-nameorid> argument specifies a group,
members of the group can also list the other members.

=item *

If it is uppercase M, anyone who can access the cell's database
server machines can list group memberships.

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<pts(1)>,
L<pts_adduser(1)>,
L<pts_examine(1)>,
L<pts_removeuser(1)>,
L<pts_setfields(1)>

=cut
