=head1 NAME

pts listentries - Displays all user or group entries in the Protection Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

pts listentries [B<-users>]  [B<-groups>]  [B<-cell> I<cell name>]
[B<-noauth>]  [B<-force>]  [B<-help>]

pts liste [B<-u>]  [B<-g>]  [B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-f>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<pts listentries> command displays the name and AFS ID of all
Protection Database entries of the indicated type. It also displays
the AFS ID of each entry's owner and creator.
To display all user and machine entries, either include the B<-users>
flag or omit both it and the B<-groups> flag. To display all group
entries, include the B<-groups> flag. To display all entries, provide
both flags.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-users>

Displays user and machine entries.

=item B<-groups>

Displays group entries.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details,
see the introductory L<pts(1)> reference page.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. For
more details, see the introductory L<pts(1)> reference page.

=item B<-force>

Enables the command to continue executing as far as possible
when errors or other problems occur, rather than halting
execution at the first error.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

==back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output includes a line for each entry, with information in four
columns that have the following headers:

=over 4

=item Name

The entry's name

=item ID

The entry's AFS ID (AFS UID for a user or machine, negative AFS
GID for a group)

=item Owner

The AFS ID of the user or group that owns the entry

=item Creator

The AFS ID of the user who created the entry (the
system:administrators group is listed as the creator of the
entry for anonymous and the system groups, but it is not
otherwise possible for a group to create groups)

=back

In general, the entries appear in the order in which they were
created.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example displays both user and group entries.

    pts listentries -users -groups

    Name                          ID  Owner Creator
    system:administrators       -204   -204    -204
    system:anyuser              -101   -204    -204
    system:authuser             -102   -204    -204
    anonymous                  32766   -204    -204
    admin                          1   -204   32766
    pat                          100   -204       1
    smith                        101   -204       1
    pat:friends                 -206    100     100
    staff                       -207   -204       1

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must belong to the system:administrators group.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<pts(1)>,
L<pts_creategroup(1)>,
L<pts_createuser(1)>,
L<pts_examine(1)>

=cut
