=head1 NAME

pts rename - Changes the name of a Protection Database entry

=head1 SYNOPSIS

pts rename B<-oldname> I<old name>  B<-newname> I<new name>
           [B<-cell> I<cell name>]  [B<-noauth>]  [B<-force>]  [B<-help>]

pts ren B<-o> I<old name>  B<-ne> I<new name>  [B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-no>]  [B<-f>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<pts rename> command changes the name of the user, machine, or group
entry specified by the B<-oldname> argument to the name specified by the
B<-newname> argument. It is not possible to change a user or machine
entry's name to look like a regular group entry's name (have a colon
in it).

Members of the B<system:administrators> group can change a regular group
name into a prefix-less name and vice versa. When changing a
prefix-less group name into a regular group name or a regular group
name to another regular group name, the owner field of the new name
(the part before the colon) must correctly reflect the group's owner.

Changing a regular group's owner with the C<pts chown> command
automatically changes the owner field (the part before the colon) of
the group's name, but does not change the owner field of any groups
owned by the group. Use this command to rename those groups to a form
that accurately reflects their ownership.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-oldname> I<old name>

Specifies the current full name of the entry.

=item B<-newname> I<new name>

Specifies the new full name for the entry. For regular groups,
the owner field (the part before the colon) of the new name
must reflect the actual ownership of the group.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details,
see the introductory L<pts(1)> reference page.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity B<anonymous> to the issuer. For
more details, see the introductory L<pts(1)> reference page.

=item B<-force>

Enables the command to continue executing as far as possible
when errors or other problems occur, rather than halting
execution at the first error.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example changes the name of the group B<staff>, owned by
the privileged user B<admin>, to B<admin:staff>:

    pts rename -oldname staff -newname admin:staff

The following example changes the name of the group B<admin:finance> to
the group B<finance>. The issuer must belong to the B<system:administrators>
group.

    pts rename -oldname admin:finance -newname finance

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

To change a regular group name to a prefix-less name or vice versa, or
to change a user or machine entry's name, the issuer must belong to
the B<system:administrators> group.

To change a group name to a new name of the same type (regular or
prefix-less), the issuer must own the group or belong to the
B<system:administrators> group.

=head1 CAVEATS

By convention, many aspects of an AFS user account have the same name
as the user's Protection Database entry, including the Authentication
Database entry, volume, and mount point. When using this command to
change a user name, also change the names of all related entities to
maintain consistency. For instructions, see the chapter on user
accounts in the IBM AFS Administration Guide.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<pts(1)>,
L<pts_chown(1)>

=cut
