=head1 NAME

pts delete - Deletes a Protection Database entry

=head1 SYNOPSIS

pts delete B<-nameorid> I<user or group name or id> [I<user or group name or id> ...]
[B<-cell> I<cell name>]
[B<-noauth>]  [B<-force>]  [B<-help>]

pts d B<-na> I<user or group name or id> [I<user or group name or id> ...]
[B<-c> I<cell name>]  [B<-no>]  [B<-f>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<pts delete> command removes each entry specified by the B<-nameorid>
argument from the Protection Database. Deleting entries affects other
parts of the system in various ways:

=over 4

=item *

Deleted users and groups still appear on access control lists
(ACLs), but are listed by AFS UID or GID rather than by name,
because there is no longer an associated name to which to
translate the ID. To remove these obsolete entries from ACLs, use
the C<fs cleanacl> command.

=item *

Deleting a user or machine's entry removes it from the membership
list of any group to which it belonged.

=item *

Deleting a group entry removes it from the membership list of any
user or machine entry that belonged to the group, and also
increments the group-creation quota of the group's creator by one,
even if the creator no longer owns the group.
To remove a user or machine from a group without actually deleting the
entry, use the pts removeuser command.

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-nameorid> I<user or group name or id> [I<user or group name or id> ...]

Specifies the name or AFS UID of each user, the name or AFS GID
of each group, or the IP address (complete or wildcard-style)
or AFS UID of each machine entry to delete. It is acceptable to
mix users, machines, and groups on the same command line, as
well as names (IP addresses for machines) and IDs. Precede the
GID of each group with a hyphen to indicate that it is
negative.

=item B<-cell> I<cell name>

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details,
see the introductory L<pts(1)> reference page.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. For
more details, see the introductory L<pts(1)> reference page.

=item B<-force>

Enables the command to continue executing as far as possible
when errors or other problems occur, rather than halting
execution at the first error.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

==back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example deletes the user entries pat and terry:

    pts delete pat terry

The following example deletes the Protection Database entry of the
group with AFS GID -215.

    pts delete -215

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must belong to the system:administrators group to delete
user and machine entries. To delete group entries, the issuer must
either own the group or belong to the system:administrators group.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_cleanacl(1)>,
L<pts(1)>,
L<pts_removeuser(1)>

=cut
