=head1 NAME

pts help - Displays the syntax of specified pts commands or lists functional
descriptions for all pts commands

=head1 SYNOPSIS

pts help [B<-topic> I<help string> [I<help string> ...]]
[B<-help>]

pts h [B<-t> I<help string> [I<help string> ...]]
[B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The C<pts help> command displays the complete online help entry (short
description and syntax statement) for each command operation code
specified by the B<-topic> argument. If the B<-topic> argument is omitted,
the output includes the first line (name and short description) of the
online help entry for every pts command.
To list every pts command whose name or short description includes a
specified keyword, use the pts apropos command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-topic> I<help string> [I<help string> ...]

Indicates each command for which to display the complete online
help entry. Omit the pts part of the command name, providing
only the operation code (for example, specify membership, not
pts membership). If this argument is omitted, the output
briefly describes every pts command.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid
options are ignored.

==back

=head1 OUTPUT

The online help entry for each pts command consists of the following
two or three lines:

=over 4

=item *

The first line names the command and briefly describes its
function.

=item *

The second line lists aliases for the command, if any.

=item *

The final line, which begins with the string Usage, lists the
command's options in the prescribed order. Online help entries use
the same symbols (for example, brackets) as the reference pages in
this document.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command displays the online help entry for the pts
membership command:

    pts help membership

    pts membership:  list membership of a user or group
    aliases: groups
    Usage: pts membership -nameorid <user or group name or id>+
    [-cell <cell name>] [-noauth] [-force] [-help]

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

Converted from html to pod by Alf Wachsmann <alfw@slac.stanford.edu>, 2003,
Stanford Linear Accelerator Center, a department of Stanford University.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<pts(1)>,
L<pts_apropos(1)>

=cut
