.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH FS_LISTACL 1 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
fs listacl \- Displays ACLs
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBfs listacl\fR <<\ [\fB\-path\fR\ <\fIdir/file\ path\fR+] >>> [\fB\-id\fR] [\fB\-if\fR] [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBfs la\fR <<\ [\fB\-p\fR\ <\fIdir/file\ path\fR+] >>> [\fB\-id\fR] [\fB\-if\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.PP
\fBfs lista\fR <<\ [\fB\-p\fR\ <\fIdir/file\ path\fR+] >>> [\fB\-id\fR] [\fB\-if\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBfs listacl\fR command displays the access control list (ACL)
associated with each specified file, directory, or symbolic link. The
specified element can reside in the DFS filespace if the issuer is using
the AFS/DFS Migration Toolkit Protocol Translator to access DFS data (and
DFS does implement per-file ACLs). To display the ACL of the current
working directory, omit the \fB\-path\fR argument.
.PP
To alter an ACL, use the fs setacl command. To copy an ACL from one
directory to another, use the \fBfs copyacl\fR command. To remove obsolete
entries from an ACL, use the \fBfs cleanacl\fR command.
.SH "CAUTIONS"
Placing a user or group on the \f(CWNegative rights\fR section of the ACL does
not guarantee denial of permissions, if the \f(CWNormal rights\fR section
grants the permissions to members of the system:anyuser group. In that
case, the user needs only to issue the \fBunlog\fR command to obtain the
permissions granted to the system:anyuser group.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-path\fR <\fIdir/file path\fR>+" 4
Names each directory or file for which to display the \s-1ACL\s0. For \s-1AFS\s0 files,
the output displays the \s-1ACL\s0 from the file's parent directory; \s-1DFS\s0 files do
have their own \s-1ACL\s0. Incomplete pathnames are interpreted relative to the
current working directory, which is also the default value if this
argument is omitted.
.Ip "\fB\-id\fR" 4
Displays the Initial Container \s-1ACL\s0 of each \s-1DFS\s0 directory. This argument is
supported only on \s-1DFS\s0 directories accessed via the \s-1AFS/DFS\s0 Migration
Toolkit Protocol Translator.
.Ip "\fB\-if\fR" 4
Displays the Initial Object \s-1ACL\s0 of each \s-1DFS\s0 directory. This argument is
supported only on \s-1DFS\s0 directories accessed via the \s-1AFS/DFS\s0 Migration
Toolkit Protocol Translator.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "OUTPUT"
The first line of the output for each file, directory, or symbolic link
reads as follows:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   Access list for <directory> is
.Ve
If the issuer used shorthand notation in the pathname, such as the period
(\f(CW.\fR) to represent the current current directory, that notation sometimes
appears instead of the full pathname of the directory.
.PP
Next, the \f(CWNormal rights\fR header precedes a list of users and groups who
are granted the indicated permissions, with one pairing of user or group
and permissions on each line. If negative permissions have been assigned
to any user or group, those entries follow a \f(CWNegative rights\fR
header. The format of negative entries is the same as those on the
\f(CWNormal rights\fR section of the ACL, but the user or group is denied
rather than granted the indicated permissions.
.PP
AFS does not implement per-file ACLs, so for a file the command displays
the ACL on its directory. The output for a symbolic link displays the ACL
that applies to its target file or directory, rather than the ACL on the
directory that houses the symbolic link.
.PP
The permissions for AFS enable the possessor to perform the indicated
action:
.Ip "a (administer)" 4
Change the entries on the \s-1ACL\s0.
.Ip "d (delete)" 4
Remove files and subdirectories from the directory or move them to other
directories.
.Ip "i (insert)" 4
Add files or subdirectories to the directory by copying, moving or
creating.
.Ip "k (lock)" 4
Set read locks or write locks on the files in the directory.
.Ip "l (lookup)" 4
List the files and subdirectories in the directory, stat the directory
itself, and issue the \fBfs listacl\fR command to examine the directory's
\s-1ACL\s0.
.Ip "r (read)" 4
Read the contents of files in the directory; issue the \f(CWls -l\fR command to
stat the elements in the directory.
.Ip "w (write)" 4
Modify the contents of files in the directory, and issue the \s-1UNIX\s0 \fBchmod\fR
command to change their mode bits
.Ip "A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H" 4
Have no default meaning to the \s-1AFS\s0 server processes, but are made
available for applications to use in controlling access to the directory's
contents in additional ways. The letters must be uppercase.
.PP
For \s-1DFS\s0 files and directories, the permissions are similar, except that
the \s-1DFS\s0 \f(CWx\fR (execute) permission replaces the \s-1AFS\s0 \f(CWl\fR (lookup)
permission, \s-1DFS\s0 \f(CWc\fR (control) replaces \s-1AFS\s0 \f(CWa\fR (administer), and there
is no \s-1DFS\s0 equivalent to the \s-1AFS\s0 \f(CWk\fR (lock) permission. The meanings of
the various permissions also differ slightly, and \s-1DFS\s0 does not implement
negative permissions. For a complete description of \s-1DFS\s0 permissions, see
the \s-1DFS\s0 documentation and the \fI\s-1IBM\s0 \s-1AFS\s0/\s-1DFS\s0 Migration Toolkit
Administration Guide and Reference\fR.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following command displays the ACL on the home directory of the user
\f(CWpat\fR (the current working directory), and on its \f(CWprivate\fR
subdirectory.
.PP
.Vb 11
\&   % fs listacl -path . private
\&   Access list for . is
\&   Normal rights:
\&      system:authuser rl
\&      pat rlidwka
\&      pat:friends rlid
\&   Negative rights:
\&      smith rlidwka
\&   Access list for private is
\&   Normal rights:
\&      pat rlidwka
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
If the \fB\-path\fR argument names an AFS directory, the issuer must have the
\f(CWl\fR (lookup) permission on its ACL and the ACL for every directory that
precedes it in the pathname.
.PP
If the \fB\-path\fR argument names an AFS file, the issuer must have the \f(CWl\fR
(lookup) and \f(CWr\fR (read) permissions on the ACL of the file's directory,
and the \fBl\fR permission on the ACL of each directory that precedes it in
the pathname.
.PP
If the \fB\-path\fR argument names a DFS directory or file, the issuer must
have the \f(CWx\fR (execute) permission on its ACL and on the ACL of each
directory that precedes it in the pathname.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIfs_cleanacl(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIfs_copyacl(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIfs_setacl(1)\fR manpage
.PP
\fIIBM AFS/DFS Migration Toolkit Administration Guide and Reference\fR
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "FS_LISTACL 1"
.IX Name "fs listacl - Displays ACLs"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "CAUTIONS"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-path\fR <\fIdir/file path\fR>+"

.IX Item "\fB\-id\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-if\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "OUTPUT"

.IX Item "a (administer)"

.IX Item "d (delete)"

.IX Item "i (insert)"

.IX Item "k (lock)"

.IX Item "l (lookup)"

.IX Item "r (read)"

.IX Item "w (write)"

.IX Item "A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

