.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH FS_SETSERVERPREFS 1 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
fs setserverprefs \- Sets the preference ranks for file servers or VL servers
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBfs setserverprefs\fR <<\ [\fB\-servers\fR\ <\fIfileserver\ names\ and\ ranks\fR+] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-vlservers\fR\ <\fIVL\ server\ names\ and\ ranks\fR+] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-file\fR\ <\fIinput\ from\ named\ file\fR] >>> [\fB\-stdin\fR] [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBfs sets\fR <<\ [\fB\-se\fR\ <\fIfileserver\ names\ and\ ranks\fR+] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-vl\fR\ <\fIVL\ server\ names\ and\ ranks\fR+] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-f\fR\ <\fIinput\ from\ named\ file\fR] >>> [\fB\-st\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.PP
\fBfs sp\fR <<\ [\fB\-se\fR\ <\fIfileserver\ names\ and\ ranks\fR+] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-vl\fR\ <\fIVL\ server\ names\ and\ ranks\fR+] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-f\fR\ <\fIinput\ from\ named\ file\fR] >>> [\fB\-st\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBfs setserverprefs\fR command sets the local Cache Manager's preference
ranks for one or more file server machine interfaces or, if the
\fB\-vlserver\fR argument is provided, for Volume Location (VL) Server
machines. For file server machines, the numerical ranks determine the
order in which the Cache Manager attempts to contact the interfaces of
machines that are housing a volume. For VL Server machines, the ranks
determine the order in which the Cache Manager attempts to contact a
cell's VL Servers when requesting VLDB information.
.PP
The \fBfs getserverprefs\fR reference page explains how the Cache Manager
uses preference ranks when contacting file server machines or VL Server
machines. The following paragraphs explain how the Cache Manager
calculates default ranks, and how to use this command to change the
defaults.
.Sh "Calculation of Default Preference Ranks"
The Cache Manager stores a preference rank in kernel memory as a paired \s-1IP\s0
address and numerical rank. If a file server machine is multihomed, the
Cache Manager assigns a distinct rank to each of the machine's addresses
(up to the number of addresses that the \s-1VLDB\s0 can store per machine, which
is specified in the \fI\s-1IBM\s0 \s-1AFS\s0 Release Notes\fR). Once calculated, a rank
persists until the machine reboots, or until this command is used to
change it.
.PP
The Cache Manager sets default \s-1VL\s0 Server preference ranks as it
initializes, randomly assigning a rank from the range 10,000 to 10,126 to
each of the machines listed in the local \fI/usr/vice/etc/CellServDB\fR
file. Machines from different cells can have the same rank, but this does
not present a problem because the Cache Manager consults only one cell's
ranks at a time.
.PP
The Cache Manager sets default preference ranks for file server machine as
it fetches volume location information from the \s-1VLDB\s0. Each time it learns
about file server machine interfaces for which it has not already set
ranks, it assigns a rank to each interface. If the local client machine
has only one \s-1IP\s0 address, the Cache Manager compares it to the server
interface's \s-1IP\s0 address and sets a rank according to the following
algorithm. If the client machine is multihomed, the Cache Manager applies
the algorithm to each of the client machine's addresses and assigns to the
file server machine interface the lowest rank that results.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
If the local machine is a file server machine, the base rank for each of
its interfaces is 5,000.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
If the file server machine interface is on the same subnetwork as the
client interface, its base rank is 20,000.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
If the file server machine interface is on the same network as the client
interface, or is at the distant end of a point-to-point link with the
client interface, its base rank is 30,000.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
If the file server machine interface is on a different network than the
client interface, or the Cache Manager cannot obtain network information
about it, its base rank is 40,000.
.PP
After assigning a base rank to a file server machine interface, the Cache
Manager adds to it a number randomly chosen from the range 0 (zero) to
14. As an example, a file server machine interface in the same subnetwork
as the local machine receives a base rank of 20,000, but the Cache Manager
records the actual rank as an integer between 20,000 and 20,014. This
process reduces the number of interfaces that have exactly the same
rank. As with \s-1VL\s0 Server machine ranks, it is possible for file server
machine interfaces from foreign cells to have the same rank as interfaces
in the local cell, but this does not present a problem. Only the relative
ranks of the interfaces that house a given volume are relevant, and \s-1AFS\s0
only supports storage of a volume in one cell at a time.
.Sh "Setting Non-default Preference Ranks"
Use the \fBfs setserverprefs\fR command to reset an existing preference rank,
or to set the initial rank of a file server machine interface or \s-1VL\s0 Server
machine for which the Cache Manager has no rank. To make a rank persist
across a reboot of the local machine, place the appropriate \fBfs
setserverprefs\fR command in the machine's \s-1AFS\s0 initialization file.
.PP
Specify each preference rank as a pair of values separated by one or more
spaces:
.Ip "\(bu" 4
The first member of the pair is the fully-qualified hostname (for example,
\f(CWfs1.abc.com\fR), or the \s-1IP\s0 address in dotted decimal format, of a file
server machine interface or \s-1VL\s0 Server machine
.Ip "\(bu" 4
The second member of the pair is an integer. The possible ranks range from
\f(CW1\fR through \f(CW65535\fR.
.PP
As with default ranks, the Cache Manager adds a randomly chosen integer to
a rank specified by this command. For file server machine interfaces, the
integer is from the range 0 (zero) to 14; for \s-1VL\s0 Server machines, it is
from the range 0 (zero) to 126. For example, if the administrator assigns
a rank of 15,000 to a file server machine interface, the Cache Manager
stores an integer between 15,000 to 15,014.
.PP
There are several ways to provide ranks for file server machine interfaces
(but not for \s-1VL\s0 Server machines):
.Ip "\(bu" 4
On the command line, following the \fB\-servers\fR argument.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
In a file named by the \fB\-file\fR argument. Place each pair on its own line
in the file. Directing the output from the \fBfs getserverprefs\fR command to
a file automatically generates a file with the proper format.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
Via the standard input stream, by providing the \fB\-stdin\fR flag. This
method enables the issuer to feed in values directly from a program or
script that generates preference ranks by using an algorithm appropriate
to the local cell. The \s-1AFS\s0 distribution does not include such programs or
scripts.
.PP
When setting file server machine preference ranks, it is legal to combine
the \fB\-servers\fR, \fB\-file\fR, and \fB\-stdin\fR options on a single command
line. If different options specify a different rank for the same
interface, the Cache Manager stores and uses the rank assigned with the
\fB\-servers\fR argument.
.PP
The \fB\-vlservers\fR argument is the only way to assign \s-1VL\s0 Server machine
ranks. It can be combined with one or more of the \fB\-servers\fR, \fB\-file\fR,
and \fB\-stdin\fR options, but the Cache Manager applies the values provided
for those options to file server machine ranks only.
.PP
The fs command interpreter does not verify hostnames or \s-1IP\s0 addresses, and
so assigns preference ranks to invalid machine names or addresses. The
Cache Manager never uses such ranks unless the same incorrect information
is in the \s-1VLDB\s0.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-servers\fR <\fIfile server names and ranks\fR>+" 4
Specifies one or more file server machine preference ranks. Each rank
pairs the fully-qualified hostname or \s-1IP\s0 address (in dotted decimal
format) of a file server machine's interface with an integer rank,
separated by one or more spaces; also separate each pair with one or more
spaces. Acceptable values for the rank range from \f(CW1\fR through \f(CW65521\fR; a
lower value indicates a greater preference.  Providing ranks outside this
range can have unpredictable results.  Providing a value no larger than
\f(CW65521\fR guarantees that the rank does not exceed the maximum possible
value of 65,535 even if the largest random factor (14) is added.
.Sp
This argument can be combined with the \fB\-file\fR argument, \fB\-stdin\fR flag,
or both. If more than one of the arguments sets a rank for the same
interface, the rank set by this argument takes precedence. It can also be
combined with the \fB\-vlservers\fR argument, but does not interact with it.
.Ip "\fB\-vlservers\fR <\fI\s-1VL\s0 server names and ranks\fR>+" 4
Specifies one or more \s-1VL\s0 Server preference ranks. Each rank pairs the
fully-qualified hostname or \s-1IP\s0 address (in dotted decimal format) of a \s-1VL\s0
Server machine with an integer rank, separated by one or more spaces; also
separate each pair with one or more spaces. Acceptable values for the rank
range from \f(CW1\fR through \f(CW65521\fR; a lower value indicates a greater
preference. Providing ranks outside this range can have unpredictable
results. Providing a value no larger than \f(CW65521\fR guarantees that the
rank does not exceed the maximum possible value of 65,535 even if the
largest random factor (14) is added.
.Sp
This argument can be combined with the \fB\-servers\fR argument, \fB\-file\fR
argument, \fB\-stdin\fR flag, or any combination of the three, but does not
interact with any of them. They apply only to file server machine ranks.
.Ip "\fB\-file\fR <\fIinput file\fR>" 4
Specifies the full pathname of a file from which to read pairs of file
server machine interfaces and their ranks, using the same notation and
range of values as for the \fB\-servers\fR argument. In the file, place each
pair on its own line and separate the two parts of each pair with one or
more spaces.
.Sp
This argument can be combined with the \fB\-servers\fR argument, \fB\-stdin\fR
flag, or both. If more than one of the arguments sets a rank for the same
interface, the rank set by the \fB\-server\fR argument takes precedence. It
can also be combined with the \fB\-vlservers\fR argument, but does not
interact with it.
.Ip "\fB\-stdin\fR" 4
Reads pairs of file server machine interface and integer rank from the
standard input stream. The intended use is to accept input piped in from a
user-defined program or script that generates ranks in the appropriate
format, but it also accepts input typed to the shell. Format the interface
and rank pairs as for the \fB\-file\fR argument. If typing at the shell, type
Ctrl-D after the final newline to complete the input.
.Sp
This argument can be combined with the \fB\-servers\fR argument, the \fB\-file\fR
argument, or both. If more than one of the arguments sets a rank for the
same interface, the rank set by the \fB\-server\fR argument takes
precedence. It can also be combined with the \fB\-vlservers\fR argument, but
does not interact with it.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following command sets the Cache Manager's preference ranks for the
file server machines named \f(CWfs3.abc.com\fR and \f(CWfs4.abc.com\fR, the latter
of which is specified by its IP address, 192.12.105.100. The machines
reside in another subnetwork of the local machine's network, so their
default base rank is 30,000. To increase the Cache Manager's preference
for these machines, the issuer assigns a rank of \f(CW25000\fR, to which the
Cache Manager adds an integer in the range from 0 to 15.
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   # fs setserverprefs -servers fs3.abc.com 25000 192.12.105.100 25000
.Ve
The following command uses the \fB\-servers\fR argument to set the Cache
Manager's preference ranks for the same two file server machines, but it
also uses the \fB\-file\fR argument to read a collection of preference ranks
from a file that resides in the local file \fI/etc/fs.prefs\fR:
.PP
.Vb 2
\&   # fs setserverprefs -servers fs3.abc.com 25000 192.12.105.100 25000 \e
\&       -file /etc/fs.prefs
.Ve
The /etc/fs.prefs file has the following contents and format:
.PP
.Vb 6
\&   192.12.108.214        7500
\&   192.12.108.212        7500
\&   138.255.33.41         39000
\&   138.255.33.34         39000
\&   128.0.45.36           41000
\&   128.0.45.37           41000
.Ve
The following command uses the \fB\-stdin\fR flag to read preference ranks
from the standard input stream. The ranks are piped to the command from a
program, \fBcalc_prefs\fR, which was written by the issuer to calculate
preferences based on values significant to the local cell.
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   # calc_prefs | fs setserverprefs -stdin
.Ve
The following command uses the \fB\-vlservers\fR argument to set the Cache
Manager's preferences for the VL server machines named \f(CWfs1.abc.com\fR,
\f(CWfs3.abc.com\fR, and \f(CWfs4.abc.com\fR to base ranks of 1, 11000, and 65521,
respectively:
.PP
.Vb 2
\&   # fs setserverprefs -vlservers fs1.abc.com 1 fs3.abc.com 11000 \e
\&       fs4.abc.com 65521
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The issuer must be logged in as the local superuser root.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIfs_getserverprefs(1)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "FS_SETSERVERPREFS 1"
.IX Name "fs setserverprefs - Sets the preference ranks for file servers or VL servers"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Subsection "Calculation of Default Preference Ranks"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Subsection "Setting Non-default Preference Ranks"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-servers\fR <\fIfile server names and ranks\fR>+"

.IX Item "\fB\-vlservers\fR <\fI\s-1VL\s0 server names and ranks\fR>+"

.IX Item "\fB\-file\fR <\fIinput file\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-stdin\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

