.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH FS_SETACL 1 "OpenAFS" "29/Jan/2007" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
fs setacl \- Sets the ACL for a directory
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBfs setacl\fR <<\ \fB\-dir\fR\ <\fIdirectory\fR+ >>> <<\ \fB\-acl\fR\ <\fIaccess\ list\ entries\fR+ >>>
    [\fB\-clear\fR] [\fB\-negative\fR] [\fB\-id\fR] [\fB\-if\fR] [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBfs sa\fR <<\ \fB\-d\fR\ <\fIdirectory\fR+ >>> <<\ \fB\-a\fR\ <\fIaccess\ list\ entries\fR+ >>>
    [\fB\-c\fR] [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-id\fR] [\fB\-if\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.PP
\fBfs seta\fR <<\ \fB\-d\fR\ <\fIdirectory\fR+ >>> <<\ \fB\-a\fR\ <\fIaccess\ list\ entries\fR+ >>>
    [\fB\-c\fR] [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-id\fR] [\fB\-if\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBfs setacl\fR command adds the access control list (ACL) entries
specified with the \fB\-acl\fR argument to the ACL of each directory named by
the \fB\-dir\fR argument.
.PP
If the \fB\-dir\fR argument designates a pathname in DFS filespace (accessed
via the AFS/DFS Migration Toolkit Protocol Translator), it can be a file
as well as a directory. The ACL must already include an entry for
\f(CWmask_obj\fR, however. For more details, refer to the \fIIBM AFS/DFS
Migration Toolkit Administration Guide and Reference\fR.
.PP
Only user and group entries are acceptable values for the \fB\-acl\fR
argument. Do not place machine entries (IP addresses) directly on an ACL;
instead, make the machine entry a group member and place the group on the
ACL.
.PP
To completely erase the existing ACL before adding the new entries,
provide the \fB\-clear\fR flag. To add the specified entries to the \f(CWNegative
rights\fR section of the ACL (deny rights to specified users or groups),
provide the \fB\-negative\fR flag.
.PP
To display an ACL, use the fs listacl command. To copy an ACL from one
directory to another, use the \fBfs copyacl\fR command.
.SH "CAUTIONS"
If the ACL already grants certain permissions to a user or group, the
permissions specified with the \fBfs setacl\fR command replace the existing
permissions, rather than being added to them.
.PP
Setting negative permissions is generally unnecessary and not
recommended. Simply omitting a user or group from the \f(CWNormal rights\fR
section of the ACL is normally adequate to prevent access. In particular,
note that it is futile to deny permissions that are granted to members of
the system:anyuser group on the same ACL; the user needs only to issue the
\fBunlog\fR command to receive the denied permissions.
.PP
When including the \fB\-clear\fR option, be sure to reinstate an entry for
each directory's owner that includes at least the \f(CWl\fR (lookup)
permission. Without that permission, it is impossible to resolve the \*(L"dot\*(R"
(\f(CW.\fR) and \*(L"dot dot\*(R" (\f(CW..\fR) shorthand from within the directory. (The
directory's owner does implicitly have the \f(CWa\fR (administer) permission
even on a cleared ACL, but must know to use it to add other permissions.)
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-dir\fR <\fIdirectory\fR>+" 4
Names each \s-1AFS\s0 directory, or \s-1DFS\s0 directory or file, for which the set the
\s-1ACL\s0. Partial pathnames are interpreted relative to the current working
directory.
.Sp
Specify the read/write path to each directory (or \s-1DFS\s0 file), to avoid the
failure that results from attempting to change a read-only volume. By
convention, the read/write path is indicated by placing a period before
the cell name at the pathname's second level (for example,
\fI/afs/.abc.com\fR). For further discussion of the concept of read/write and
read-only paths through the filespace, see the \fBfs mkmount\fR reference
page.
.Ip "\fB\-acl\fR <\fIaccess list entries\fR>+" 4
Defines a list of one or more \s-1ACL\s0 entries, each a pair that names:
.Ip "\(bu" 8
A user name or group name as listed in the Protection Database.
.Ip "\(bu" 8
One or more \s-1ACL\s0 permissions, indicated either by combining the individual
letters or by one of the four acceptable shorthand words.
.Sp
in that order, separated by a space (thus every instance of this argument
has two parts). The accepted \s-1AFS\s0 abbreviations and shorthand words, and
the meaning of each, are as follows:
.Ip "a (administer)" 8
Change the entries on the \s-1ACL\s0.
.Ip "d (delete)" 8
Remove files and subdirectories from the directory or move them to other
directories.
.Ip "i (insert)" 8
Add files or subdirectories to the directory by copying, moving or
creating.
.Ip "k (lock)" 8
Set read locks or write locks on the files in the directory.
.Ip "l (lookup)" 8
List the files and subdirectories in the directory, stat the directory
itself, and issue the \fBfs listacl\fR command to examine the directory's
\s-1ACL\s0.
.Ip "r (read)" 8
Read the contents of files in the directory; issue the \f(CWls -l\fR command to
stat the elements in the directory.
.Ip "w (write)" 8
Modify the contents of files in the directory, and issue the \s-1UNIX\s0 \fBchmod\fR
command to change their mode bits.
.Ip "A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H" 8
Have no default meaning to the \s-1AFS\s0 server processes, but are made
available for applications to use in controlling access to the directory's
contents in additional ways. The letters must be uppercase.
.Ip "all" 8
Equals all seven permissions (\f(CWrlidwka\fR).
.Ip "none" 8
No permissions. Removes the user/group from the \s-1ACL\s0, but does not
guarantee they have no permissions if they belong to groups that remain on
the \s-1ACL\s0.
.Ip "read" 8
Equals the \f(CWr\fR (read) and \f(CWl\fR (lookup) permissions.
.Ip "write" 8
Equals all permissions except \f(CWa\fR (administer), that is, \f(CWrlidwk\fR.
.Sp
It is acceptable to mix entries that combine the individual letters with
entries that use the shorthand words, but not use both types of notation
within an individual pairing of user or group and permissions.
.Sp
To learn the proper format and acceptable values for \s-1DFS\s0 \s-1ACL\s0 entries, see
the \fI\s-1IBM\s0 \s-1AFS\s0/\s-1DFS\s0 Migration Toolkit Administration Guide and Reference\fR.
.Ip "\fB\-clear\fR" 4
Removes all existing entries on each \s-1ACL\s0 before adding the entries
specified with the \fB\-acl\fR argument.
.Ip "\fB\-negative\fR" 4
Places the specified \s-1ACL\s0 entries in the \f(CWNegative rights\fR section of each
\s-1ACL\s0, explicitly denying the rights to the user or group, even if entries
on the accompanying \f(CWNormal rights\fR section of the \s-1ACL\s0 grant them
permissions.
.Sp
This argument is not supported for \s-1DFS\s0 files or directories, because \s-1DFS\s0
does not implement negative \s-1ACL\s0 permissions.
.Ip "\fB\-id\fR" 4
Places the \s-1ACL\s0 entries on the Initial Container \s-1ACL\s0 of each \s-1DFS\s0 directory,
which are the only file system objects for which this flag is supported.
.Ip "\fB\-if\fR" 4
Places the \s-1ACL\s0 entries on the Initial Object \s-1ACL\s0 of each \s-1DFS\s0 directory,
which are the only file system objects for which this flag is supported.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following example adds two entries to the \f(CWNormal rights\fR section of
the current working directory's ACL: the first entry grants \f(CWr\fR (read)
and \f(CWl\fR (lookup) permissions to the group pat:friends, while the other
(using the \f(CWwrite\fR shorthand) gives all permissions except \f(CWa\fR
(administer) to the user \f(CWsmith\fR.
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   % fs setacl -dir . -acl pat:friends rl smith write
.Ve
.Vb 5
\&   % fs listacl -path .
\&   Access list for . is
\&   Normal rights:
\&      pat:friends rl
\&      smith rlidwk
.Ve
The following example includes the \fB\-clear\fR flag, which removes the
existing permissions (as displayed with the \fBfs listacl\fR command) from
the current working directory's \fIreports\fR subdirectory and replaces them
with a new set.
.PP
.Vb 9
\&   % fs listacl -dir reports
\&   Access list for reports is
\&   Normal rights:
\&      system:authuser rl
\&      pat:friends rlid
\&      smith rlidwk
\&      pat rlidwka
\&   Negative rights:
\&      terry rl
.Ve
.Vb 1
\&   % fs setacl -clear -dir reports -acl pat all smith write system:anyuser rl
.Ve
.Vb 6
\&   % fs listacl -dir reports
\&   Access list for reports is
\&   Normal rights:
\&      system:anyuser rl
\&      smith rlidwk
\&      pat rlidwka
.Ve
The following example use the \fB\-dir\fR and \fB\-acl\fR switches because it sets
the ACL for more than one directory (both the current working directory
and its \fIpublic\fR subdirectory).
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   % fs setacl -dir . public -acl pat:friends rli
.Ve
.Vb 9
\&   % fs listacl -path . public
\&   Access list for . is
\&   Normal rights:
\&      pat rlidwka
\&      pat:friends rli
\&   Access list for public is
\&   Normal rights:
\&      pat rlidwka
\&      pat:friends rli
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The issuer must have the \f(CWa\fR (administer) permission on the directory's
ACL, a member of the system:administrators group, or, as a special case,
must be the UID owner of the top-level directory of the volume containing
this directory.  The last provision allows the UID owner of a volume to
repair accidental ACL errors without requiring intervention by a member of
system:administrators.
.PP
Earlier versions of OpenAFS also extended implicit administer permission
to the owner of any directory.  In current versions of OpenAFS, only the
owner of the top-level directory of the volume has this special
permission.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIfs_copyacl(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIfs_listacl(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIfs_mkmount(1)\fR manpage
.PP
\fIIBM AFS/DFS Migration Toolkit Administration Guide and Reference\fR
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "FS_SETACL 1"
.IX Name "fs setacl - Sets the ACL for a directory"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "CAUTIONS"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-dir\fR <\fIdirectory\fR>+"

.IX Item "\fB\-acl\fR <\fIaccess list entries\fR>+"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "a (administer)"

.IX Item "d (delete)"

.IX Item "i (insert)"

.IX Item "k (lock)"

.IX Item "l (lookup)"

.IX Item "r (read)"

.IX Item "w (write)"

.IX Item "A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H"

.IX Item "all"

.IX Item "none"

.IX Item "read"

.IX Item "write"

.IX Item "\fB\-clear\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-negative\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-id\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-if\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

