.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH PTS_LISTOWNED 1 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
pts listowned \- Show the Protection Database groups owned by a user or group
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBpts listowned\fR <<\ \fB\-nameorid\fR\ <\fIuser\ or\ group\ name\ or\ id\fR+ >>>
    [\-cell <\fIcell name\fR>] [\fB\-noauth\fR] [\fB\-force\fR] [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBpts listo\fR <<\ \fB\-na\fR\ <\fIuser\ or\ group\ name\ or\ id\fR+ >>>
    [\-c <\fIcell name\fR>] [\fB\-no\fR] [\fB\-f\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBpts listowned\fR command lists the groups owned by each user or group
specified by the \fB\-nameorid\fR argument.
.PP
To list any \fIorphaned group\fRs, whose owners have themselves been deleted
from the Protection Database, provide a value of \f(CW0\fR (zero) for the
\fB\-nameorid\fR argument. To change the owner to a user or group that still
exists, use the \fBpts chown\fR command.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-nameorid\fR <\fIuser or group name or id\fR>+" 4
Specifies the name or \s-1AFS\s0 \s-1UID\s0 of each user, or the name or \s-1AFS\s0 \s-1GID\s0 of each
group, for which to display the list of owned groups. It is acceptable to
mix users and groups on the same command line, as well as names and
IDs. Precede the \s-1GID\s0 of each group with a hyphen to indicate that it is
negative.
.Sp
A value of 0 (zero) lists group entries for groups whose owners no longer
have entries in the Protection Database.
.Ip "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>" 4
Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
the \fIpts(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-noauth\fR" 4
Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. For more
details, see the \fIpts(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-force\fR" 4
Enables the command to continue executing as far as possible when errors
or other problems occur, rather than halting execution at the first error.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "OUTPUT"
The first line of the output indicates the name and AFS UID or AFS GID of
each user or group for which ownership information is requested, in the
following format:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   Groups owned by <name> (id: <ID>) are:
.Ve
A list of groups follows. The list does not include groups owned by groups
that the user or group owns, or to which the user or group belongs. If the
user or group does not own any groups, only the header line appears.
.PP
The following error message appears if the issuer is not privileged to
view ownership information. By default, for both user and group entries
the second privacy flag is the hyphen, which denies permission to anyone
other than the user (for a user entry) and the members of the
system:administrators group.
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   pts: Permission denied so failed to get owner list for <name> (id: <ID>)
.Ve
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following example lists the groups owned by user terry and shows that
the group \f(CWterry:friends\fR does not own any groups:
.PP
.Vb 6
\&   % pts listowned terry terry:friends
\&   Groups owned by terry (id: 1045) are:
\&     terry:friends
\&     terry:project1
\&     terry:project2
\&   Groups owned by terry:friends (id: -673) are:
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The required privilege depends on the setting of the second privacy flag
in the Protection Database entry of each user or group indicated by the
\fB\-nameorid\fR argument (use the \fBpts examine\fR command to display the
flags):
.Ip "\(bu" 4
If it is the hyphen and the \fB\-nameorid\fR argument specifies a group, only
the members of the system:administrators group and the owner of a group
can list the groups it owns.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
If it is the hyphen and the \fB\-nameorid\fR argument specifies a user, only
the members of the system:administrators group and the associated user can
list the groups he or she owns.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
If it is uppercase letter \f(CWO\fR, anyone who can access the cell's database
server machines can list the groups owned by this user or group.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIpts(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIpts_chown(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIpts_examine(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIpts_setfields(1)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "PTS_LISTOWNED 1"
.IX Name "pts listowned - Show the Protection Database groups owned by a user or group"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-nameorid\fR <\fIuser or group name or id\fR>+"

.IX Item "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-noauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-force\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "OUTPUT"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

