.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH PTS_EXAMINE 1 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
pts examine \- Displays a Protection Database entry
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBpts examine\fR <<\ \fB\-nameorid\fR\ <\fIuser\ or\ group\ name\ or\ id\fR+ >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-cell\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>> [\fB\-noauth\fR] [\fB\-force\fR] [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBpts e\fR <<\ \fB\-na\fR\ <\fIuser\ or\ group\ name\ or\ id\fR+ >>> <<\ [\fB\-c\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-no\fR] [\fB\-f\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.PP
\fBpts check\fR <<\ \fB\-na\fR\ <\fIuser\ or\ group\ name\ or\ id\fR+ >>> <<\ [\fB\-c\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-no\fR] [\fB\-f\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.PP
\fBpts che\fR <<\ \fB\-na\fR\ <\fIuser\ or\ group\ name\ or\ id\fR+ >>> <<\ [\fB\-c\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-no\fR] [\fB\-f\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBpts examine\fR command displays information from the Protection
Database entry of each user, machine or group specified by the
\fB\-nameorid\fR argument.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "-nameorid <\fIuser or group name or id\fR>+" 4
Specifies the name or \s-1AFS\s0 \s-1UID\s0 of each user, the name or \s-1AFS\s0 \s-1GID\s0 of each
group, or the \s-1IP\s0 address (complete or wildcard-style) or \s-1AFS\s0 \s-1UID\s0 of each
machine for which to display the Protection Database entry. It is
acceptable to mix users, machines, and groups on the same command line, as
well as names (\s-1IP\s0 addresses for machines) and IDs. Precede the \s-1GID\s0 of each
group with a hyphen to indicate that it is negative.
.Ip "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>" 4
Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
the \fIpts(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-noauth\fR" 4
Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. For more
details, see the \fIpts(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-force\fR" 4
Enables the command to continue executing as far as possible when errors
or other problems occur, rather than halting execution at the first error.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "OUTPUT"
The output for each entry consists of two lines that include the following
fields:
.Ip "Name" 4
The contents of this field depend on the type of entry:
.Ip "\(bu" 8
For a user entry, it is the username that the user types when
authenticating with \s-1AFS\s0.
.Ip "\(bu" 8
For a machine entry, it is either the \s-1IP\s0 address of a single machine in
dotted decimal format, or a wildcard notation that represents a group of
machines on the same network. See the \fBpts createuser\fR reference page for
an explanation of the wildcard notation.
.Ip "\(bu" 8
For a group entry, it is one of two types of group name. If the name has a
colon between the two parts, it represents a regular group and the part
before the prefix reflects the group's owner. A prefix-less group does not
have the owner field or the colon. For more details on group names, see
the \fBpts creategroup\fR reference page.
.Ip "id" 4
A unique number that the \s-1AFS\s0 server processes use to identify \s-1AFS\s0 users,
machines and groups. \s-1AFS\s0 UIDs for user and machine entries are positive
integers, and \s-1AFS\s0 GIDs for group entries are negative integers. \s-1AFS\s0 UIDs
and GIDs are similar in function to the UIDs and GIDs used in local file
systems such as \s-1UFS\s0, but apply only to \s-1AFS\s0 operations.
.Ip "owner" 4
The user or group that owns the entry and thus can administer it (change
the values in most of the fields displayed in the output of this command),
or delete it entirely. The Protection Server automatically records the
system:administrators group in this field for user and machine entries at
creation time.
.Ip "creator" 4
The user who issued the \fBpts createuser\fR or \fBpts creategroup\fR command to
create the entry. This field serves as an audit trail, and cannot be
changed.
.Ip "membership" 4
An integer that for users and machines represents the number of groups to
which the user or machine belongs. For groups, it represents the number of
group members.
.Ip "flags" 4
A string of five characters, referred to as \fIprivacy flags\fR, which
indicate who can display or administer certain aspects of the entry.
.Ip "s" 8
Controls who can issue the \fBpts examine\fR command to display the entry.
.Ip "o" 8
Controls who can issue the \fBpts listowned\fR command to display the groups
that a user or group owns.
.Ip "m" 8
Controls who can issue the \fBpts membership\fR command to display the groups
a user or machine belongs to, or which users or machines belong to a
group.
.Ip "a" 8
Controls who can issue the \fBpts adduser\fR command to add a user or machine
to a group. It is meaningful only for groups, but a value must always be
set for it even on user and machine entries.
.Ip "r" 8
Controls who can issue the \fBpts removeuser\fR command to remove a user or
machine from a group. It is meaningful only for groups, but a value must
always be set for it even on user and machine entries.
.Sp
Each flag can take three possible types of values to enable a different
set of users to issue the corresponding command:
.Ip "\(bu" 8
A hyphen (\-) designates the members of the system:administrators group and
the entry's owner. For user entries, it designates the user in addition.
.Ip "\(bu" 8
The lowercase version of the letter applies meaningfully to groups only,
and designates members of the group in addition to the individuals
designated by the hyphen.
.Ip "\(bu" 8
The uppercase version of the letter designates everyone.
.Sp
For example, the flags \f(CWSOmar\fR on a group entry indicate that anyone can
examine the group's entry and display the groups that it owns, and that
only the group's members can display, add, or remove its members.
.Sp
The default privacy flags for user and machine entries are \f(CWS----\fR,
meaning that anyone can display the entry. The ability to perform any
other functions is restricted to members of the system:administrators
group and the entry's owner (as well as the user for a user entry).
.Sp
The default privacy flags for group entries are \f(CWS-M--\fR, meaning that all
users can display the entry and the members of the group, but only the
entry owner and members of the system:administrators group can perform
other functions.
.Ip "group quota" 4
The number of additional groups the user is allowed to create. The \fBpts
createuser\fR command sets it to 20 for both users and machines, but it has
no meaningful interpretation for a machine, because it is not possible to
authenticate as a machine. Similarly, it has no meaning in group entries
and the \fBpts creategroup\fR command sets it to 0 (zero); do not change this
value.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following example displays the user entry for \f(CWterry\fR and the machine
entry \f(CW158.12.105.44\fR.
.PP
.Vb 5
\&   % pts examine terry 158.12.105.44
\&   Name: terry, id: 1045, owner: system:administrators, creator: admin,
\&     membership: 9, flags: S----, group quota: 15.
\&   Name: 158.12.105.44, id: 5151, owner: system:administrators,
\&     creator: byu, membership: 1, flags: S----, group quota: 20.
.Ve
The following example displays the entries for the AFS groups with GIDs
\-673 and \-674.
.PP
.Vb 5
\&   % pts examine -673 -674
\&   Name: terry:friends, id: -673, owner: terry, creator: terry,
\&     membership: 5, flags: S-M--, group quota: 0.
\&   Name: smith:colleagues, id: -674, owner: smith, creator: smith,
\&     membership: 14, flags: SOM--, group quota: 0.
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The required privilege depends on the setting of the first privacy flag in
the Protection Database entry of each entry specified by the \fB\-nameorid\fR
argument:
.Ip "\(bu" 4
If it is lowercase \f(CWs\fR, members of the system:administrators group and
the user associated with a user entry can examine it, and only members of
the system:administrators group can examine a machine or group entry.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
If it is uppercase \f(CWS\fR, anyone who can access the cell's database server
machines can examine the entry.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIpts(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIpts_adduser(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIpts_chown(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIpts_creategroup(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIpts_createuser(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIpts_listowned(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIpts_membership(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIpts_removeuser(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIpts_rename(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIpts_setfields(1)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "PTS_EXAMINE 1"
.IX Name "pts examine - Displays a Protection Database entry"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "-nameorid <\fIuser or group name or id\fR>+"

.IX Item "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-noauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-force\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "OUTPUT"

.IX Item "Name"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "id"

.IX Item "owner"

.IX Item "creator"

.IX Item "membership"

.IX Item "flags"

.IX Item "s"

.IX Item "o"

.IX Item "m"

.IX Item "a"

.IX Item "r"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "group quota"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

