.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH PTS_SETFIELDS 1 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
pts setfields \- Sets privacy flags or quota for a Protection Database entry
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBpts setfields\fR <<\ \fB\-nameorid\fR\ <\fIuser\ or\ group\ name\ or\ id\fR+ >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-access\fR\ <\fIset\ privacy\ flags\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-groupquota\fR\ <\fIset\ limit\ on\ group\ creation\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-cell\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>> [\fB\-noauth\fR] [\fB\-force\fR] [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBpts setf\fR <<\ \fB\-na\fR\ <\fIuser\ or\ group\ name\ or\ id\fR+ >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-a\fR\ <\fIset\ privacy\ flags\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-g\fR\ <\fIset\ limit\ on\ group\ creation\fR] >>> <<\ [\fB\-c\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-no\fR] [\fB\-f\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBpts setfields\fR command sets the group-creation quota, the privacy
flags, or both, associated with each user, machine, or group entry
specified by the \fB\-nameorid\fR argument.
.PP
To examine the current quota and privacy flags, use the \fBpts examine\fR
command.
.SH "CAUTIONS"
Changing a machine or group's group-creation quota is allowed, but not
recommended. The concept is meaningless for machines and groups, because
it is impossible to authenticate as a group or machine.
.PP
Similarly, some privacy flag settings do not have a sensible
interpretation. the \fIOPTIONS\fR manpage specifies the appropriate settings.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-nameorid\fR <\fIuser or group name or id\fR>+" 4
Specifies the name or \s-1AFS\s0 \s-1UID\s0 of each user, the \s-1IP\s0 address (complete or
wildcard-style) of each machine, or the name or \s-1AFS\s0 \s-1GID\s0 of each machine
for which to set privacy flags or group-creation quota. It is acceptable
to mix users, machines, and groups on the same command line, as well as
names (\s-1IP\s0 addresses for machines) and IDs. Precede the \s-1GID\s0 of each group
with a hyphen to indicate that it is negative.
.Ip "\fB\-access\fR <\fIprivacy flags\fR>" 4
Specifies the privacy flags to apply to each entry. Provide a string of
five characters, one for each of the permissions. If this option is
omitted, the current setting remains unchanged.
.Sp
Set each flag to achieve the desired combination of permissions. If the
following list does not mention a certain setting, it is not
acceptable. For further discussion of the privacy flags, see
the \fIpts_examine(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\(bu" 8
The first flag determines who can use the \fBpts examine\fR command to
display information from a user, machine or group's Protection Database
entry.
.Ip "\(bu" 12
Set it to lowercase \f(CWs\fR to permit the members of the
system:administrators group to display a user, machine, or group entry,
and the associated user to display a user entry.
.Ip "\(bu" 12
Set it to uppercase \f(CWS\fR to permit anyone who can access the cell's
database server machines to display a user, machine, or group entry.
.Ip "\(bu" 8
The second flag determines who can use the \fBpts listowned\fR command to
list the groups that a user or group owns.
.Ip "\(bu" 12
Set it to the hyphen (\f(CW-\fR) to permit the members of the
system:administrators group and a user to list the groups he or she owns,
or to permit the members of the system:administrators group and a group's
owner to list the groups that a group owns.
.Ip "\(bu" 12
Set it to uppercase letter \f(CWO\fR to permit anyone who can access the cell's
database server machines to list the groups owned by a machine or group
entry.
.Ip "\(bu" 8
The third flag determines who can use the \fBpts membership\fR command to
list the groups to which a user or machine belongs, or the users and
machines that belong to a group.
.Ip "\(bu" 12
Set it to the hyphen (\f(CW-\fR) to permit the members of the
system:administrators group and a user to list the groups he or she
belongs to, to permit the members of the \fBsystem:administrators\fR group to
list the groups a machine belongs to, or to permit the members of the
system:administrators group and a group's owner to list the users and
machines that belong to it.
.Ip "\(bu" 12
Set it to lowercase \f(CWm\fR to permit members of a group to list the other
members. (For user and machine entries, this setting is equivalent to the
hyphen.)
.Ip "\(bu" 12
Set it to uppercase \f(CWM\fR to permit anyone who can access the cell's
database server machines to list membership information for a user,
machine or group.
.Ip "\(bu" 8
The fourth flag determines who can use the \fBpts adduser\fR command to add
users and machines as members of a group. This flag has no sensible
interpretation for user and machine entries, but must be set nonetheless,
preferably to the hyphen.
.Ip "\(bu" 12
Set it to the hyphen (\f(CW-\fR) to permit the members of the
system:administrators group and the owner of the group to add members.
.Ip "\(bu" 12
Set it to lowercase \f(CWa\fR to permit members of a group to add other
members.
.Ip "\(bu" 12
Set it to uppercase \f(CWA\fR to permit anyone who can access the cell's
database server machines to add members to a group.
.Ip "\(bu" 8
The fifth flag determines who can use the \fBpts removeuser\fR command to
remove users and machines from membership in a group. This flag has no
sensible interpretation for user and machine entries, but must be set
nonetheless, preferably to the hyphen.
.Ip "\(bu" 12
Set it to the hyphen (\f(CW-\fR) to permit the members of the
system:administrators group and the owner of the group to remove members.
.Ip "\(bu" 12
Set it to lowercase \f(CWr\fR to permit members of a group to remove other
members.
.Ip "\fB\-groupquota\fR <\fIgroup creation quota\fR>" 4
Specifies the number of additional groups a user can create (it does not
matter how many he or she has created already). Do not include this
argument for a group or machine entry.
.Ip "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>" 4
Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
the \fIpts(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-noauth\fR" 4
Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. For more
details, see the \fIpts(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-force\fR" 4
Enables the command to continue executing as far as possible when errors
or other problems occur, rather than halting execution at the first error.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following example changes the privacy flags on the group \f(CWoperators\fR,
retaining the default values of the first, second and third flags, but
setting the fourth and fifth flags to enable the group's members to add
and remove other members.
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   % pts setfields -nameorid operators -access S-Mar
.Ve
The following example changes the privacy flags and sets group quota on
the user entry \f(CWadmin\fR. It retains the default values of the first,
fourth, and fifth flags, but sets the second and third flags, to enable
anyone to list the groups that \f(CWadmin\fR owns and belongs to.  Users
authenticated as \f(CWadmin\fR can create an additional 50 groups.
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   % pts setfields -nameorid admin -access SOM-- -groupquota 50
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
To edit group entries or set the privacy flags on any type of entry, the
issuer must own the entry or belong to the system:administrators group. To
set group-creation quota on a user entry, the issuer must belong to the
system:administrators group.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIpts(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIpts_adduser(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIpts_examine(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIpts_listowned(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIpts_membership(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIpts_removeuser(1)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "PTS_SETFIELDS 1"
.IX Name "pts setfields - Sets privacy flags or quota for a Protection Database entry"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "CAUTIONS"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-nameorid\fR <\fIuser or group name or id\fR>+"

.IX Item "\fB\-access\fR <\fIprivacy flags\fR>"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\fB\-groupquota\fR <\fIgroup creation quota\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-noauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-force\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

