.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH PTS_MEMBERSHIP 1 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
pts membership \- Displays the membership list for a user or group
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBpts membership\fR <<\ \fB\-nameorid\fR\ <\fIuser\ or\ group\ name\ or\ id\fR+ >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-cell\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>> [\fB\-noauth\fR] [\fB\-force\fR] [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBpts m\fR <<\ \fB\-na\fR\ <\fIuser\ or\ group\ name\ or\ id\fR+ >>> <<\ [\fB\-c\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-no\fR] [\fB\-f\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.PP
\fBpts groups\fR <<\ \fB\-na\fR\ <\fIuser\ or\ group\ name\ or\ id\fR+ >>> [\-c <\fIcell name\fR>]
    [\fB\-no\fR] [\fB\-f\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.PP
\fBpts g\fR <<\ \fB\-na\fR\ <\fIuser\ or\ group\ name\ or\ id\fR+ >>> <<\ [\fB\-c\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-no\fR] [\fB\-f\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBpts membership\fR command lists the groups to which each user or
machine specified by the \fB\-nameorid\fR argument belongs, or lists the users
and machines that belong to each group specified by the \fB\-nameorid\fR
argument.
.PP
It is not possible to list the members of the system:anyuser or
system:authuser groups, and they do not appear in the list of groups to
which a user belongs.
.PP
To add users or machine to groups, use the pts adduser command; to remove
them, use the \fBpts removeuser\fR command.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-nameorid\fR <\fIuser or group name or id\fR>+" 4
Specifies the name or \s-1AFS\s0 \s-1UID\s0 of each user entry, the \s-1IP\s0 address (complete
or wildcard-style) or \s-1AFS\s0 \s-1UID\s0 of each machine entry, or the name or \s-1AFS\s0
\s-1GID\s0 of each group, for which to list group membership. It is acceptable to
mix users, machines, and groups on the same command line, as well as names
and IDs. Precede the \s-1GID\s0 of each group with a hyphen to indicate that it
is negative.
.Ip "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>" 4
Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
the \fIpts(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-noauth\fR" 4
Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. For more
details, see the \fIpts(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-force\fR" 4
Enables the command to continue executing as far as possible when errors
or other problems occur, rather than halting execution at the first error.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "OUTPUT"
For each user and machine, the output begins with the following header
line, followed by a list of the groups to which the user or machine
belongs:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   Groups <name> (id: <AFS UID>) is a member of:
.Ve
For each group, the output begins with the following header line, followed
by a list of the users and machines who belong to the group:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   Members of <group_name> (id: <AFS GID>) are:
.Ve
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following example lists the groups to which the user \f(CWpat\fR belongs
and the members of the group \f(CWsmith:friends\fR.  Note that third privacy
flag for the \f(CWpat\fR entry was changed from the default hyphen to enable a
non-administrative user to obtain this listing.
.PP
.Vb 11
\&   % pts membership pat smith:friends
\&   Groups pat (id: 1144) is a member of:
\&     smith:friends
\&     staff
\&     johnson:project-team
\&   Members of smith:friends (id: -562) are:
\&     pat
\&     terry
\&     jones
\&     richard
\&     thompson
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The required privilege depends on the setting of the third privacy flag in
the Protection Database entry of each user or group indicated by the
\fB\-nameorid\fR argument (use the \fBpts examine\fR command to display the
flags):
.Ip "\(bu" 4
If it is the hyphen and the \fB\-nameorid\fR argument specifies a user, only
the associated user and members of the system:administrators group can
list the groups to which the user belongs.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
If it is the hyphen and the \fB\-nameorid\fR argument specifies a machine,
only the members of the system:administrators group can list the groups to
which the machine belongs.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
If it is the hyphen and the \fB\-nameorid\fR argument specifies a group, only
the owner of the group and members of the system:administrators group can
list the members of the group.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
If it is lowercase \f(CWm\fR and the \fB\-nameorid\fR argument specifies a user or
machine entry, the meaning is equivalent to the hyphen.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
If it is lowercase \f(CWm\fR and the \fB\-nameorid\fR argument specifies a group,
members of the group can also list the other members.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
If it is uppercase \f(CWM\fR, anyone who can access the cell's database server
machines can list group memberships.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIpts(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIpts_adduser(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIpts_examine(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIpts_removeuser(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIpts_setfields(1)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "PTS_MEMBERSHIP 1"
.IX Name "pts membership - Displays the membership list for a user or group"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-nameorid\fR <\fIuser or group name or id\fR>+"

.IX Item "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-noauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-force\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "OUTPUT"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

