.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH PTS_ADDUSER 1 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
pts adduser \- Adds a user or machine to a Protection Database group
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBpts adduser\fR <<\ \fB\-user\fR\ <\fIuser\ name\fR+ >>> <<\ \fB\-group\fR\ <\fIgroup\ name\fR+ >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-cell\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>> [\fB\-noauth\fR] [\fB\-force\fR] [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBpts ad\fR <<\ \fB\-u\fR\ <\fIuser\ name\fR+ >>> <<\ \fB\-g\fR\ <\fIgroup\ name\fR+ >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-c\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>> [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-f\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBpts adduser\fR command adds each user or machine entry named by the
\fB\-user\fR argument as a member of each group named by the \fB\-group\fR
argument.
.PP
To remove members of a group, use the \fBpts removeuser\fR command. To list
the groups to which a user or machine belongs, or the members of a
specified group, use the \fBpts membership\fR command.
.SH "CAUTIONS"
After being added as a group member, a currently authenticated user must
reauthenticate (for example, by issuing the \fBklog\fR command) to obtain
permissions granted to the group on an access control list (ACL).
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-user\fR <\fIuser name\fR>+" 4
Specifies the name of each user or machine entry to add to each group
named by the \fB\-group\fR argument. The name of a machine entry resembles an
\s-1IP\s0 address and can use the wildcard notation described on the \fBpts
createuser\fR reference page. The user or machine entry must already exist
in the Protection Database.
.Ip "\fB\-group\fR <\fIgroup name\fR>+" 4
Specifies the complete name (including the owner prefix if applicable) of
each group to which to add members. The group entry must already exist in
the Protection Database.
.Ip "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>" 4
Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
the \fIpts(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-noauth\fR" 4
Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. For more
details, see the \fIpts(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-force\fR" 4
Enables the command to continue executing as far as possible when errors
or other problems occur, rather than halting execution at the first error.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following example adds user smith to the group system:administrators.
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   % pts adduser -user smith -group system:administrators
.Ve
The following example adds users \f(CWjones\fR, \f(CWterry\fR, and \fBpat\fR to the
smith:colleagues group.
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   % pts adduser -user jones terry pat -group smith:colleagues
.Ve
The following example adds the machine entries in the ABC Corporation
subnet to the group \f(CWbin-prot\fR. Because of the IP address range of the
ABC Corporation subnet, the system administrator was able to group the
machines into three machine entries (using the wildcard notation discussed
on the \fBpts createuser\fR reference page).
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   % pts adduser -user 138.255.0.0 192.12.105.0 192.12.106.0 -group bin-prot
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The required privilege depends on the setting of the fourth privacy flag
in the Protection Database entry for each group named by the \fB\-group\fR
argument (use the \fBpts examine\fR command to display the flags):
.Ip "\(bu" 4
If it is the hyphen, only the group's owner and members of the
system:administrators group can add members.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
If it is lowercase \f(CWa\fR, current members of the group can add new members.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
If it is uppercase \f(CWA\fR, anyone who can access the cell's database server
machines can add new members.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIpts(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIpts_createuser(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIpts_examine(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIpts_membership(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIpts_removeuser(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIpts_setfields(1)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "PTS_ADDUSER 1"
.IX Name "pts adduser - Adds a user or machine to a Protection Database group"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "CAUTIONS"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-user\fR <\fIuser name\fR>+"

.IX Item "\fB\-group\fR <\fIgroup name\fR>+"

.IX Item "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-noauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-force\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

