.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH RXDEBUG 1 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
rxdebug \- Provides debugging trace of Rx activity
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBrxdebug\fR <<\ \fB\-servers\fR\ <\fIserver\ machine\fR >>> <<\ [\fB\-port\fR\ <\fIIP\ port\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-nodally\fR] [\fB\-allconnections\fR] [\fB\-rxstats\fR] [\fB\-onlyserver\fR]
    [\fB\-onlyclient\fR] <<\ [\fB\-onlyport\fR\ <\fIshow\ only\ port\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-onlyhost\fR\ <\fIshow\ only\ host\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-onlyauth\fR\ <\fIshow\ only\ auth\ level\fR] >>> [\fB\-version\fR]
    [\fB\-noconns\fR] [\fB\-peers\fR] [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBrxdebug\fR <<\ \fB\-s\fR\ <\fIserver\ machine\fR >>> <<\ [\fB\-po\fR\ <\fIIP\ port\fR] >>> [\fB\-nod\fR]
    [\fB\-a\fR] [\fB\-r\fR] [\fB\-onlys\fR] [\fB\-onlyc\fR] <<\ [\fB\-onlyp\fR\ <\fIshow\ only\ port\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-onlyh\fR\ <\fIshow\ only\ host\fR] >>> [\-onlya <\fIshow only auth level\fR>]
    [\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-noc\fR] [\fB\-pe\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBrxdebug\fR command provides a trace of Rx activity for the server or
client machine named by the \fB\-servers\fR argument. Rx is AFS's proprietary
remote procedure call (RPC) protocol, so this command enables the issuer
to check the status of communication between the Cache Manager or an AFS
server process (as specified with the \fB\-port\fR argument) on the machine
and one or more processes on other machines.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-servers\fR <\fIserver machine\fR>" 4
Specifies the machine that is running the Cache Manager or server process
for which to trace Rx activity. Provide the machine's \s-1IP\s0 address in dotted
decimal format, its fully qualified host name (for example,
\f(CWfs1.abc.com\fR), or the shortest abbreviated form of its host name that
distinguishes it from other machines. Successful use of an abbreviated
form depends on the availability of a name resolution service (such as the
Domain Name Service or a local host table) at the time the command is
issued.
.Ip "\fB\-port\fR <\fI\s-1IP\s0 port\fR>" 4
Specifies the process for which to trace Rx activity. Omit this argument
to specify the File Server (\fBfileserver\fR process), or provide one of the
following values:
.Ip "\f(CW7000\fR for the File Server (\fBfileserver\fR process)" 8
.Ip "\f(CW7001\fR for the Cache Manager (specifically, its callback interface)" 8
.Ip "\f(CW7002\fR for the Protection Server (\fBptserver\fR process)" 8
.Ip "\f(CW7003\fR for the Volume Location (\s-1VL\s0) Server (\fBvlserver\fR process)" 8
.Ip "\f(CW7004\fR for the Authentication Server (\fBkaserver\fR process)" 8
.Ip "\f(CW7005\fR for the Volume Server (\fBvolserver\fR process)" 8
.Ip "\f(CW7007\fR for the \s-1BOS\s0 Server (\fBbosserver\fR process)" 8
.Ip "\f(CW7008\fR for the Update Server (\fBupserver\fR process)" 8
.Ip "\f(CW7009\fR for the \s-1NFS/AFS\s0 Translator's \fBrmtsysd\fR daemon" 8
.Ip "\f(CW7021\fR for the Backup Server (\fBbuserver\fR process)" 8
.Sp
Finally, specify \f(CW7025\fR through \f(CW65535\fR for the Backup Tape Coordinator
(\fBbutc\fR process) that has the port offset number derived by subtracting
7025 from this value.
.Ip "\fB\-nodally\fR" 4
Produces output only for connections that are not in dally mode.
.Ip "\fB\-allconnections\fR" 4
Produces output for all connections, even inactive ones. By default, the
output includes information only for connections that are active or in
dally mode when the \fBrxdebug\fR command is issued.
.Ip "\fB\-rxstats\fR" 4
Produces detailed statistics about Rx history and performance (for
example, counts of the number of packets of various types the process has
read and sent, calculations of average and minimum roundtrip time, and so
on).
.Ip "\fB\-onlyserver\fR" 4
Produces output only for connections in which the process designated by
the \fB\-port\fR argument is acting as the server.
.Ip "\fB\-onlyclient\fR" 4
Produces output only for connections in which the process designated by
the \fB\-port\fR argument is acting as the client.
.Ip "\fB\-onlyport\fR <\fIport\fR>" 4
Produces output only for connections between the process designated by the
\fB\-port\fR argument and the specified port on any another machine. Use the
same port identifiers as for the \fB\-port\fR argument.
.Ip "\fB\-onlyhost\fR <\fIhost\fR>" 4
Produces output only for connections between the process designated by the
\fB\-port\fR argument and any process on the specified machine. To identify
the machine, use the same notation as for the \fB\-servers\fR argument.
.Ip "\fB\-onlyauth\fR" 4
Produces output only for connections that are using the specified
authentication level. Provide one of the following values:
.Ip "auth" 8
Cconnections at authentication level rxkad_auth
.Ip "clear" 8
Connections at authentication level rxkad_clear
.Ip "crypt" 8
Connections at authentication level rxkad_crypt
.Ip "none" 8
Unauthenticated connections (equivalents are \f(CWnull\fR, \f(CWnoauth\fR, and
\f(CWunauth\fR)
.Ip "\fB\-version\fR" 4
Reports the \s-1AFS\s0 build level of the binary file for the process designated
by the \fB\-port\fR argument (or of the kernel extensions file for port 7001,
the Cache Manager's callback interface). Any other options combined with
this one are ignored.
.Ip "\fB\-noconns\fR" 4
Produces only the standard statistics that begin the output produced by
every option (other than \fB\-version\fR), without reporting on any
connections. Any other options combined with this one are ignored.
.Ip "\fB\-peers\fR" 4
Outputs information from the \fIpeer structure\fR maintained for each port on
another machine to which the process designated by the \fB\-port\fR argument
has a connection. There is information about roundtrip time and numbers of
packets sent and received, for example.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "OUTPUT"
If any options other than \fB\-version\fR or \fB\-help\fR are provided, the output
written to the standard output stream begins with basic statistics about
packet usage and availability, how many calls are waiting for a thread,
how many threads are free, and so on (this is the only information
provided by the \fB\-noconns\fR flag). Adding other options produces
additional information as described in the \fIOPTIONS\fR manpage. The output is intended
for debugging purposes and is meaningful to someone familiar with the
implementation of Rx.
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
None.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIafsd(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbosserver(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbuserver(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbutc(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIfileserver(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIkaserver(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIptserver(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIupclient(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIupserver(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIvlserver(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIvolserver(8)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "RXDEBUG 1"
.IX Name "rxdebug - Provides debugging trace of Rx activity"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-servers\fR <\fIserver machine\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-port\fR <\fI\s-1IP\s0 port\fR>"

.IX Item "\f(CW7000\fR for the File Server (\fBfileserver\fR process)"

.IX Item "\f(CW7001\fR for the Cache Manager (specifically, its callback interface)"

.IX Item "\f(CW7002\fR for the Protection Server (\fBptserver\fR process)"

.IX Item "\f(CW7003\fR for the Volume Location (\s-1VL\s0) Server (\fBvlserver\fR process)"

.IX Item "\f(CW7004\fR for the Authentication Server (\fBkaserver\fR process)"

.IX Item "\f(CW7005\fR for the Volume Server (\fBvolserver\fR process)"

.IX Item "\f(CW7007\fR for the \s-1BOS\s0 Server (\fBbosserver\fR process)"

.IX Item "\f(CW7008\fR for the Update Server (\fBupserver\fR process)"

.IX Item "\f(CW7009\fR for the \s-1NFS/AFS\s0 Translator's \fBrmtsysd\fR daemon"

.IX Item "\f(CW7021\fR for the Backup Server (\fBbuserver\fR process)"

.IX Item "\fB\-nodally\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-allconnections\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-rxstats\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-onlyserver\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-onlyclient\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-onlyport\fR <\fIport\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-onlyhost\fR <\fIhost\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-onlyauth\fR"

.IX Item "auth"

.IX Item "clear"

.IX Item "crypt"

.IX Item "none"

.IX Item "\fB\-version\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-noconns\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-peers\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "OUTPUT"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

