.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH VOS_COPY 1 "OpenAFS" "19/Jan/2008" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
vos_copy \- Make a copy of a volume
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBvos copy\fR <<\ [\fB\-id\fR]\ <\fIvolume\ name\ or\ ID\ of\ source\fR >>>
   <<\ [\fB\-fromserver\fR]\ <\fImachine\ name\ for\ source\fR >>>
   <<\ [\fB\-frompartition\fR]\ <\fIpartition\ name\ for\ source\fR >>>
   <<\ [\fB\-toname\fR]\ <\fIvolume\ name\ for\ new\ copy\fR >>>
   <<\ [\fB\-toserver\fR]\ <\fImachine\ name\ for\ destination\fR >>>
   <<\ [\fB\-topartition\fR]\ <\fIpartition\ name\ for\ destination\fR >>>
   [\fB\-offline\fR] [\fB\-readonly\fR] [\fB\-live\fR] <<\ [\fB\-cell\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>>
   [\fB\-noauth\fR] [\fB\-localauth\fR] [\fB\-verbose\fR] [\fB\-encrypt\fR] [\fB\-help\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBvos copy\fR command makes a copy of a volume with a new name.  It is
equivalent to \fBvos dump\fR followed by \fBvos restore\fR, but doesn't require
the volume be stored locally by the client.
.SH "CAUTIONS"
Currently, the maximum size of a volume is 2 terabytes (2^31 bytes)
and the maximum size of a /vicepX partition on a fileserver is also 2
terabytes. The fileserver will not report an error when it has access
to a partition larger than 2 terabytes, but it will probably fail if
the administrator attempts to use more than 2 terabytes of space. In
addition, there are reports of erroneous disk usage numbers when
\fBvos partinfo\fR or other OpenAFS disk reporting tools are used with
partitions larger than 2 terabytes.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "[\fB\-id\fR] <\fIvolume name or \s-1ID\s0\fR>" 4
Specifies either the complete name or volume \s-1ID\s0 number of a read/write
volume.
.Ip "[\fB\-fromserver\fR] <\fImachine name for source\fR>" 4
Identifies the file server machine where the source volume resides. Provide
the machine's \s-1IP\s0 address or its host name (either fully qualified or using
an unambiguous abbreviation). For details, see the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "[\fB\-frompartition\fR] <\fIpartition name for source\fR>" 4
Names the partition where the source volume resides. Provide the full
partition name (for, example, \fB/vicepa\fR) or one of the abbreviated forms
described in the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "[\fB\-toname\fR] <\fIvolume name for new copy\fR>" 4
The complete name of the new volume to create.
.Ip "[\fB\-toserver\fR] <\fImachine name for destination\fR>" 4
Identifies the file server machine to which to copy the volume.  Provide
the machine's \s-1IP\s0 address or its host name (either fully qualified or using
an unambiguous abbreviation). For details, see the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "[\fB\-topartition\fR] <\fIpartition name for destination\fR>" 4
Names the partition to which to copy the volume. Provide the full partition
name (for, example, \fB/vicepa\fR) or one of the abbreviated forms described in
the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-offline\fR" 4
Leaves the new volume flagged as off-line in the volume database.
.Ip "\fB\-readonly\fR" 4
Flags the new volume as read-only in the volume database.
.Ip "\fB\-live\fR" 4
Copies the live volume without cloning.  This is normally not necessary and
causes the volume to be kept locked for longer than the normal copy
mechanism.
.Ip "\fB\-localauth\fR" 4
Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
\fI/usr/afs/etc/KeyFile\fR file. The \fBvos\fR command interpreter presents it to
the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the \fB\-cell\fR argument or
\fB\-noauth\fR flag. For more details, see the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-verbose\fR" 4
Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the command's
execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings and error messages
appear.
.Ip "\fB\-encrypt\fR" 4
Encrypts the command so that the operation's results are not transmitted
across the network in clear text.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "OUTPUT"
This command has no output unless \f(CW-verbose\fR is specified or there is
an error.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following example makes a verbose copy of the \f(CWtest\fR volume named
\f(CWtest2\fR in the cell \f(CWlocalcell\fR. The volume and copy both reside on
\f(CW/vicepa\fR of \f(CWserver1\fR.
.PP
.Vb 23
\&   % vos copy test server1  a test2 server1 a -cell localcell -verbose
\&   Starting transaction on source volume 536870921 ... done
\&   Allocating new volume id for clone of volume 536870921 ... done
\&   Allocating new volume id for copy of volume 536870921 ... done
\&   Cloning source volume 536870921 ... done
\&   Ending the transaction on the source volume 536870921 ... done
\&   Starting transaction on the cloned volume 536870926 ... done
\&   Setting flags on cloned volume 536870926 ... done
\&   Getting status of cloned volume 536870926 ... done
\&   Creating the destination volume 536870927 ... done
\&   Setting volume flags on destination volume 536870927 ... done
\&   Dumping from clone 536870926 on source to volume 536870927 on destination ... done
\&   Ending transaction on cloned volume 536870926 ... done
\&   Starting transaction on source volume 536870921 ... done
\&   Doing the incremental dump from source to destination for volume 536870921 ...  done
\&   Setting volume flags on destination volume 536870927 ... done
\&   Ending transaction on destination volume 536870927 ... done
\&   Ending transaction on source volume 536870921 ... done
\&   Starting transaction on the cloned volume 536870926 ... done
\&   Deleting the cloned volume 536870926 ... done
\&   Ending transaction on cloned volume 536870926 ... done
\&   Created the VLDB entry for the volume test2 536870927
\&   Volume 536870921 copied from server1 /vicepa to test2 on server1 /vicepa 
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The issuer must be listed in the \fI/usr/afs/etc/UserList\fR file on the
machine specified with the \fB\-server\fR argument and on each database server
machine. If the \fB\-localauth\fR flag is included, the issuer must instead be
logged on to a server machine as the local superuser \f(CWroot\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIvos_clone(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIvos_move(1)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright 2007 Jason Edgecombe <jason@rampaginggeek.com>
.PP
This documentation is covered by the BSD License as written in the
doc/LICENSE file. This man page was written by Jason Edgecombe for
OpenAFS.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "VOS_COPY 1"
.IX Name "vos_copy - Make a copy of a volume"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "CAUTIONS"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "[\fB\-id\fR] <\fIvolume name or \s-1ID\s0\fR>"

.IX Item "[\fB\-fromserver\fR] <\fImachine name for source\fR>"

.IX Item "[\fB\-frompartition\fR] <\fIpartition name for source\fR>"

.IX Item "[\fB\-toname\fR] <\fIvolume name for new copy\fR>"

.IX Item "[\fB\-toserver\fR] <\fImachine name for destination\fR>"

.IX Item "[\fB\-topartition\fR] <\fIpartition name for destination\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-offline\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-readonly\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-live\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-localauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-verbose\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-encrypt\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "OUTPUT"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

