.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH VOS_LISTPART 1 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
vos listpart \- Displays all AFS partitions on a file server machine
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBvos listpart\fR <<\ \fB\-server\fR\ <\fImachine\ name\fR >>> <<\ [\fB\-cell\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-noauth\fR] [\fB\-localauth\fR] [\fB\-verbose\fR] [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBvos listp\fR <<\ \fB\-s\fR\ <\fImachine\ name\fR >>> <<\ [\fB\-c\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>> [\fB\-n\fR]
    [\fB\-l\fR] [\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBvos listpart\fR command displays all of the valid AFS partitions on
the indicated file server machine, without consulting the Volume Location
Database (VLDB). The \fBvos partinfo\fR command reports the size of a
partition and the available space on that partition.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-server\fR <\fIserver name\fR>" 4
Identifies the file server machine for which to list the partitions.
Provide the machine's \s-1IP\s0 address or its host name (either fully qualified
or using an unambiguous abbreviation). For details, see the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>" 4
Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the \fB\-localauth\fR flag. For more details, see the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-noauth\fR" 4
Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. Do not combine
this flag with the \fB\-localauth\fR flag. For more details, see the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-localauth\fR" 4
Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
\fB/usr/afs/etc/KeyFile\fR file. The \fBvos\fR command interpreter presents it
to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the \fB\-cell\fR argument or
\fB\-noauth\fR flag. For more details, see the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-verbose\fR" 4
Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the command's
execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings and error messages
appear.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "OUTPUT"
The output consists of a list of partition names of the form
\fI/vicep\fIxx\fR\fR, following the header:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   The partitions on the server are:
.Ve
The last line of the output reports the total number of partitions.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following command displays the partitions on \f(CWfs1.abc.com\fR:
.PP
.Vb 4
\&   % vos listpart fs1.abc.com
\&   The partitions on the server are:
\&       /vicepa     /vicepb     /vicepc     /vicepd
\&   Total:  4
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
None
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIvos_partinfo(1)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "VOS_LISTPART 1"
.IX Name "vos listpart - Displays all AFS partitions on a file server machine"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-server\fR <\fIserver name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-noauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-localauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-verbose\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "OUTPUT"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

