.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH VOS_LOCK 1 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
vos lock \- Locks a VLDB volume entry
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBvos lock\fR <<\ \fB\-id\fR\ <\fIvolume\ name\ or\ ID\fR >>> <<\ [\fB\-cell\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-noauth\fR] [\fB\-localauth\fR] [\fB\-verbose\fR] [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBvos lo\fR <<\ \fB\-i\fR\ <\fIvolume\ name\ or\ ID\fR >>> <<\ [\fB\-c\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>> [\fB\-n\fR]
    [\fB\-l\fR] [\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBvos lock\fR command locks the Volume Location Database (VLDB) entry
for the indicated volume, blocking any operation that requires a write to
that entry. The lock applies to all of the volume versions associated with
the entry, not just the one specified with the \fB\-id\fR argument.
.PP
To unlock a single VLDB entry, use the \fBvos unlock\fR command. To unlock
several entries, or all locked entries in the VLDB, use the \fBvos
unlockvldb\fR command.
.SH "CAUTIONS"
Do not use this command in normal circumstances. It is useful for
guaranteeing that the volume stays unchanged when there is reason to
believe that volume operations cannot properly lock VLDB volume entries as
they normally do to synchronize with one another.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-id\fR <\fIvolume name or \s-1ID\s0\fR>" 4
Specifies either the complete name or volume \s-1ID\s0 number of a volume of the
any of the three types.
.Ip "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>" 4
Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the \fB\-localauth\fR flag. For more details, see the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-noauth\fR" 4
Assigns the unprivileged identity \f(CWanonymous\fR to the issuer. Do not
combine this flag with the \fB\-localauth\fR flag. For more details, see
the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-localauth\fR" 4
Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
\fI/usr/afs/etc/KeyFile\fR file. The \fBvos\fR command interpreter presents it
to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the \fB\-cell\fR argument or
\fB\-noauth\fR flag. For more details, see the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-verbose\fR" 4
Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the command's
execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings and error messages
appear.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following command locks the VLDB entry for \f(CWuser.terry\fR.
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   % vos lock user.terry
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The issuer must be listed in the \fI/usr/afs/etc/UserList\fR file on the
machine specified with the \fB\-server\fR argument and on each database server
machine. If the \fB\-localauth\fR flag is included, the issuer must instead be
logged on to a server machine as the local superuser \f(CWroot\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIvos_unlock(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIvos_unlockvldb(1)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "VOS_LOCK 1"
.IX Name "vos lock - Locks a VLDB volume entry"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "CAUTIONS"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-id\fR <\fIvolume name or \s-1ID\s0\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-noauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-localauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-verbose\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

