.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH VOS_SYNCVLDB 1 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
vos syncvldb \- Verifies VLDB entries for volumes residing at specified site
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBvos syncvldb\fR <<\ [\fB\-server\fR\ <\fImachine\ name\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-partition\fR\ <\fIpartition\ name\fR] >>> <<\ [\fB\-volume\fR\ <\fIvolume\ name\ or\ ID\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-cell\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>> [\fB\-noauth\fR] [\fB\-localauth\fR] [\fB\-verbose\fR]
    [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBvos syncv\fR <<\ [\fB\-s\fR\ <\fImachine\ name\fR] >>> <<\ [\fB\-p\fR\ <\fIpartition\ name\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-vo\fR\ <\fIvolume\ name\ or\ ID\fR] >>> <<\ [\fB\-c\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>> [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-l\fR]
    [\fB\-ve\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBvos syncvldb\fR command verifies that the status of the volumes housed
either on all partitions on the file server machine specified by the
\fB\-server\fR argument, or on the single partition specified by the
\fB\-server\fR and \fB\-partition\fR arguments, is recorded correctly in the
VLDB. If the \fB\-volume\fR argument is included to indicate a single volume,
the command compares only its status on the file server machine with its
VLDB entry.
.PP
If the \fB\-volume\fR argument is not included, the command interpreter
obtains from the Volume Server a list of the volumes that reside on each
partition, then changes information in the VLDB as necessary to reflect
their state on the partition. For example, it creates or updates a VLDB
entry when it finds a volume for which the VLDB entry is missing or
incomplete. However, if there is already a VLDB entry that defines a
different location for the volume, or there are irreconcilable conflicts
with other VLDB entries, it instead writes a message about the conflict to
the standard error stream. The command never removes volumes from the file
server machine.
.PP
To achieve complete VLDB consistency, run this command on all file server
machines in the cell, and then run the \fBvos syncserv\fR command on all file
server machines in the cell.
.PP
Using the \fB\-volume\fR argument basically combines the effects of this
command with those of the \fBvos syncserv\fR command, for a single
volume. The command not only verifies that the VLDB entry is correct for
the specified volume type (read/write, backup, or read-only), but also
checks that any related volume types mentioned in the VLDB entry actually
exist at the site listed in the entry. It is not necessary to provide the
\fB\-server\fR argument (and optionally, \fB\-partition\fR argument); if one or
both is provided, the results are reliable only if they specify the actual
location of the volume indicated by the \fB\-volume\fR argument.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-server\fR <\fIserver name\fR>" 4
Identifies the file server machine housing the volumes for which to verify
\s-1VLDB\s0 entries. Provide the machine's \s-1IP\s0 address or its host name (either
fully qualified or using an unambiguous abbreviation). For details, see
the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-partition\fR <\fIpartition name\fR>" 4
Identifies the partition housing the volumes for which to verify \s-1VLDB\s0
entries. Provide the \fB\-server\fR argument along with this one. Provide the
partition's complete name with preceding slash (for example, \f(CW/vicepa\fR)
or use one of the three acceptable abbreviated forms. For details, see
the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-volume\fR <\fIvolume name or \s-1ID\s0\fR>" 4
Specifies the name or volume \s-1ID\s0 number of a single volume for which to
verify the \s-1VLDB\s0 entry. This argument can be combined with the \fB\-server\fR
(and optionally, the \fB\-partition\fR) argument.
.Ip "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>" 4
Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the \fB\-localauth\fR flag. For more details, see the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-noauth\fR" 4
Assigns the unprivileged identity \f(CWanonymous\fR to the issuer. Do not
combine this flag with the \fB\-localauth\fR flag. For more details, see
the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-localauth\fR" 4
Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
\fI/usr/afs/etc/KeyFile\fR file. The \fBvos\fR command interpreter presents it
to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the \fB\-cell\fR argument or
\fB\-noauth\fR flag. For more details, see the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-verbose\fR" 4
Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the command's
execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings and error messages
appear.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following example command verifies the VLDB entry for each volume
stored on the file server machine \f(CWfs4.abc.com\fR.
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   % vos syncvldb fs4.abc.com
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The issuer must be listed in the \fI/usr/afs/etc/UserList\fR file on the
machine specified with the \fB\-server\fR argument and on each database server
machine. If the \fB\-localauth\fR flag is included, the issuer must instead be
logged on to a server machine as the local superuser \f(CWroot\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIvos_syncserv(1)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "VOS_SYNCVLDB 1"
.IX Name "vos syncvldb - Verifies VLDB entries for volumes residing at specified site"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-server\fR <\fIserver name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-partition\fR <\fIpartition name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-volume\fR <\fIvolume name or \s-1ID\s0\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-noauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-localauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-verbose\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

