.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH VOS_RESTORE 1 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
vos restore \- Converts an ASCII dump file into an AFS volume
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBvos restore\fR <<\ \fB\-server\fR\ <\fImachine\ name\fR >>> <<\ \fB\-partition\fR\ <\fIpartition\ name\fR >>>
    <<\ \fB\-name\fR\ <\fIname\ of\ volume\ to\ be\ restored\fR >>> <<\ [\fB\-file\fR\ <\fIdump\ file\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-id\fR\ <\fIvolume\ ID\fR] >>> <<\ [\fB\-overwrite\fR\ (abort\ |\ full\ |\ incremental)]\ >>
    <<\ [\fB\-cell\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>> [\fB\-noauth\fR] [\fB\-localauth\fR] [\-verbose]
    [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBvos res\fR <<\ \fB\-s\fR\ <\fImachine\ name\fR >>> <<\ \fB\-p\fR\ <\fIpartition\ name\fR >>>
    <<\ \fB\-na\fR\ <\fIname\ of\ volume\ to\ be\ restored\fR >>> <<\ [\fB\-f\fR\ <\fIdump\ file\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-i\fR\ <\fIvolume\ ID\fR] >>> <<\ [\fB\-o\fR\ (a\ |\ f\ |\ i)]\ >> <<\ [\fB\-c\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-no\fR] [\fB\-l\fR] [\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBvos restore\fR command converts a volume dump file previously created
with the \fBvos dump\fR command from ASCII into the volume format appropriate
for the machine type indicated by the \fB\-server\fR argument, and restores it
as a read/write volume to the partition named by the \fB\-partition\fR
argument on that machine. The Volume Server assigns the volume name
indicated with the \fB\-name\fR argument, and resets the volume's creation
timestamp to the time at which the restore operation begins (the creation
timestamp is stored in the volume header and reported in the \f(CWCreation\fR
field in the output from the \fBvos examine\fR and \fBvos listvol\fR commands.)
.PP
Use the \fB\-file\fR argument to name the dump file, or omit the argument to
provide the file via the standard input stream, presumably through a
pipe. The pipe can be named, which enables interoperation with third-party
backup utilities.
.PP
As described in the following list, the command can create a completely
new volume or overwrite an existing volume. In all cases, the full dump of
the volume must be restored before any incremental dumps. If there are
multiple incremental dump files, they must be restored in the order they
were created.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
To create a new read/write volume, use the \fB\-name\fR argument to specify a
volume name that does not already exist in the Volume Location Database
(\s-1VLDB\s0), and the \fB\-server\fR and \fB\-partition\fR arguments to specify the new
volume's site. It is best to omit the \fB\-id\fR argument so that the Volume
Location (\s-1VL\s0) Server allocates a volume \s-1ID\s0 automatically. Do not include
the \fB\-overwrite\fR argument, because there is no existing volume to
overwrite.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
To overwrite an existing volume at its current site, specify its name and
site with the \fB\-name\fR, \fB\-server\fR, and \fB\-partition\fR arguments. The
volume retains its current volume \s-1ID\s0 number unless the \fB\-id\fR argument is
provided. Specify the value \f(CWf\fR or \f(CWi\fR for the \fB\-overwrite\fR argument to
indicate whether the dump file is full or incremental, respectively.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
To overwrite an existing volume and move it to a new site, specify its
name and the new site with the \fB\-name\fR, \fB\-server\fR, and \fB\-partition\fR
arguments. The volume retains its current volume \s-1ID\s0 number unless the
\fB\-id\fR argument is provided. The volume is removed from its original
site. Specify the value \f(CWf\fR for the \fB\-overwrite\fR argument to indicate
that the dump file is a full dump (it is not possible to restore an
incremental dump and move the volume at the same time).
.PP
If the volume named by the \fB\-name\fR argument already exists and the
\fB\-overwrite\fR argument is omitted, the command interpreter produces the
following prompt:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   Do you want to do a full/incremental restore or abort? [fia](a):
.Ve
Respond by entering one of the following values:
.Ip "\(bu" 4
\f(CWf\fR if restoring a full dump file
.Ip "\(bu" 4
\f(CWi\fR if restoring an incremental dump file
.Ip "\(bu" 4
\f(CWa\fR or Return to cancel the restore operation
.SH "CAUTIONS"
If the \fB\-file\fR argument is omitted, the issuer must provide all other
necessary arguments, because the standard input stream is unavailable for
responding to the command interpreter's prompts for missing
information. In particular, the issuer must provide the \fB\-overwrite\fR
argument if overwriting an existing volume.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-server\fR <\fIserver name\fR>" 4
Identifies the file server machine onto which to restore the
volume. Provide the machine's \s-1IP\s0 address or its host name (either fully
qualified or using an unambiguous abbreviation). For details, see
the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-partition\fR <\fIpartition name\fR>" 4
Identifies the partition (on the file server machine specified by the
\fB\-server\fR argument) onto which to restore the volume. Provide the
partition's complete name with preceding slash (for example, \fI/vicepa\fR)
or use one of the three acceptable abbreviated forms. For details, see
the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-name\fR <\fIname of volume\fR>" 4
Specifies the name under which to restore the volume. It can be up to 22
characters long, but cannot end with a \f(CW.readonly\fR or \f(CW.backup\fR
extension. If the volume already exists, it is overwritten subject to the
value of the \fB\-overwrite\fR argument.
.Ip "\fB\-file\fR <\fIdump file\fR>" 4
Names the dump file to restore. Incomplete pathnames are interpreted
relative to the current working directory. Omit this argument to provide
the dump file via the standard input stream.
.Ip "\fB\-id\fR <\fIvolume \s-1ID\s0\fR>" 4
Specifies the volume \s-1ID\s0 number to assign to the restored volume.
.Ip "\fB\-overwrite\fR (a | f | i)" 4
Specifies which type of dump file is being restored when overwriting an
existing volume. Provide one of the following values:
.Ip "\(bu" 8
\f(CWa\fR to terminate the restore operation.
.Ip "\(bu" 8
\f(CWf\fR if restoring a full dump file.
.Ip "\(bu" 8
\f(CWi\fR if restoring an incremental dump file. This value is not acceptable
if the \fB\-server\fR and \fB\-partition\fR arguments do not indicate the volume's
current site.
.Sp
This argument is mandatory if the \fB\-file\fR argument is not provided.
.Ip "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>" 4
Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the \fB\-localauth\fR flag. For more details, see the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-noauth\fR" 4
Assigns the unprivileged identity \f(CWanonymous\fR to the issuer. Do not
combine this flag with the \fB\-localauth\fR flag. For more details, see
the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-localauth\fR" 4
Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
\fI/usr/afs/etc/KeyFile\fR file. The \fBvos\fR command interpreter presents it
to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the \fB\-cell\fR argument or
\fB\-noauth\fR flag. For more details, see the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-verbose\fR" 4
Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the command's
execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings and error messages
appear.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following command restores the contents of the dump file
\fI/afs/abc.com/common/dumps/terry.dump\fR to the \fI/vicepc\fR partition on the
file server machine \f(CWfs3.abc.com\fR. The restored volume is named
\f(CWuser.terry\fR.
.PP
.Vb 3
\&   % cd /afs/abc.com/common/dumps
\&   % vos restore -file terry.dump -server fs3.abc.com -partition c \e
\&       -name user.terry
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The issuer must be listed in the \fI/usr/afs/etc/UserList\fR file on the
machine specified with the \fB\-server\fR argument and on each database server
machine. If the \fB\-localauth\fR flag is included, the issuer must instead be
logged on to a server machine as the local superuser \f(CWroot\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIvos_dump(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIvos_examine(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIvos_listvol(1)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "VOS_RESTORE 1"
.IX Name "vos restore - Converts an ASCII dump file into an AFS volume"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Header "CAUTIONS"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-server\fR <\fIserver name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-partition\fR <\fIpartition name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-name\fR <\fIname of volume\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-file\fR <\fIdump file\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-id\fR <\fIvolume \s-1ID\s0\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-overwrite\fR (a | f | i)"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-noauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-localauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-verbose\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

