.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH VOS_SIZE 1 "OpenAFS" "17/Aug/2007" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
vos size \- Computes the size of a volume dump
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBvos size\fR <<\ [\fB\-cell\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>> [\fB\-dump\fR]
    [\fB\-encrypt\fR] [\fB\-help\fR] [\fB\-id\fR] <\fIvolume name or id\fR>
    [\fB\-localauth\fR] [\fB\-noauth\fR]
    <<\ [\fB\-partition\fR\ <\fIpartition\ name\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-server\fR\ <\fImachine\ name\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-time\fR\ <\fIdump\ from\ time\fR] >>> [\fB\-verbose\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBvos size\fR command shows the size of a volume's dump for backup
purposes. The size of the dump may differ from the volume size as reported
by \fBvos examine\fR or \fBfs listquota\fR. The size is shown in bytes.
.PP
This command is intended for use with backup systems that want to size
volume dumps before performing them (to optimize use of tape resources,
for example).
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>" 4
The cell in which the volume resides, if it's not in the current cell.
.Ip "\fB\-dump\fR" 4
Show the size of the volume dump for the specified volume. Currently, this
flag should always be given for \fBvos size\fR to give useful information.
It is present to allow this command to provide other size estimates in the
future.
.Ip "\fB\-encrypt\fR" 4
Encrypt the command.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.Ip "\fB\-id\fR <\fIvolume name or id\fR>" 4
Specifies either the complete name or volume \s-1ID\s0 number of the read/write,
read-only, or backup volume to size.
.Ip "\fB\-localauth\fR" 4
Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
\fI/usr/afs/etc/KeyFile\fR file. The \fBvos\fR command interpreter presents it
to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the \fB\-cell\fR argument or
\fB\-noauth\fR flag. For more details, see the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-noauth\fR" 4
Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. Do not combine
this flag with the \fB\-localauth\fR flag. For more details, see the \fIvos(1)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-partition\fR <\fIpartition name\fR>" 4
Specifies the partition on which the volume resides. Provide the
\fB\-server\fR argument along with this one.
.Ip "\fB\-server\fR <\fImachine name\fR>" 4
Specifies the file server machine on which the volume resides.  Provide
the \fB\-partition\fR argument along with this one.
.Ip "\fB\-time\fR <\fIdump from time\fR>" 4
Specifies whether the dump is full or incremental. Omit this argument to
size a full dump. See the \fIvos_dump(1)\fR manpage for the valid values for this
option.
.Ip "\fB\-verbose\fR" 4
Show more output about what's going on.
.SH "OUTPUT"
When run without \fB\-verbose\fR, the output will be:
.PP
.Vb 2
\&   Volume: <volume>
\&   dump_size: <size>
.Ve
where <volume> is the name of the volume and <size> is the size of the
dump in bytes. With \fB\-verbose\fR, additional status messages will be
printed between those two lines.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
Sizing a single user volume:
.PP
.Vb 3
\&   % vos size user.thoron -dump
\&   Volume: user.thoron
\&   dump_size: 36430
.Ve
or, more verbosely:
.PP
.Vb 6
\&   % vos size user.thoron -dump -verbose
\&   Volume: user.thoron
\&   Starting transaction on volume 2003434023... done
\&   Getting size of volume on volume 2003434023... done
\&   Ending transaction on volume 2003434023... done
\&   dump_size: 36430
.Ve
Sizing an incremental dump for the same volume:
.PP
.Vb 3
\&   % vos size -id user.thoron -time '05/04/2007 00:00:00' -dump 
\&   Volume: user.thoron
\&   dump_size: 21095
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The issuer must be listed in the \fI/usr/afs/etc/UserList\fR file on the
machine specified with the \fB\-server\fR argument or the machine on which the
volume is located if \fB\-server\fR was not given.  If the \fB\-localauth\fR flag
is included, the issuer must instead be logged on to a server machine as
the local superuser \f(CWroot\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIfs_listquota(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIvos_dump(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIvos_examine(1)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright 2007 Jason Edgecombe <jason@rampaginggeek.com>
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version
1.0. This man page was written by Jason Edgecombe for OpenAFS.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "VOS_SIZE 1"
.IX Name "vos size - Computes the size of a volume dump"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-dump\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-encrypt\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-id\fR <\fIvolume name or id\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-localauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-noauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-partition\fR <\fIpartition name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-server\fR <\fImachine name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-time\fR <\fIdump from time\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-verbose\fR"

.IX Header "OUTPUT"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

