.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH XSTAT_FS_TEST 1 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
xstat_fs_test \- Displays data collections from the File Server process
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBxstat_fs_test\fR [\fIinitcmd\fR] <<\ \fB\-fsname\fR\ <\fIfile\ server\ name(s)\ to\ monitor\fR+ >>>
    <<\ \fB\-collID\fR\ <\fIcollection(s)\ to\ fetch\fR+ >>> [\fB\-onceonly\fR]
    <<\ [\fB\-frequency\fR\ <\fIpoll\ frequency,\ in\ seconds\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-period\fR\ <\fIdata\ collection\ time,\ in\ minutes\fR] >>> [\fB\-debug\fR] [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBxstat_fs_test\fR [\fBinitcmd\fR] <<\ \fB\-fs\fR\ <\fIFile\ Server\ name(s)\ to\ monitor\fR+ >>>
    <<\ \fB\-c\fR\ <\fICollection(s)\ to\ fetch\fR+ >>> [\fB\-o\fR]
    <<\ [\fB\-fr\fR\ <\fIpoll\ frequency,\ in\ seconds\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-p\fR\ <\fIdata\ collection\ time,\ in\ minutes\fR] >>> [\fB\-d\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBxstat_fs_test\fR command tests the routines in the \fIlibxstat_fs.a\fR
library and displays the data collections associated with the File Server
(the \f(CWfs\fR process). The command executes in the foreground.
.PP
The command produces a large volume of output; to save it for later
analysis, direct it to a file.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fIinitcmd\fR" 4
Accommodates the command's use of the \s-1AFS\s0 command parser, and is optional.
.Ip "\fB\-fsname\fR <\fIfile server name to monitor\fR>+" 4
Specifies the fully qualified hostname of each file server machine for
which to monitor the File Server process.
.Ip "\fB\-collID\fR <\fIcollection to fetch\fR>+" 4
Specifies each data collection to return, which defines the type and
amount of data the command interpreter gathers about the File Server.
Data is returned in a predefined data structure.
.Sp
There are three acceptable values:
.Ip "0" 8
Provides profiling information about the numbers of times different
internal File Server routines were called since the File Server
started. This value is not currently implemented; it returns no data.
.Ip "1" 8
Reports various internal performance statistics related to the File Server
(for example, vnode cache entries and Rx protocol activity).
.Ip "2" 8
Reports all of the internal performance statistics provided by the \f(CW1\fR
setting, plus some additional, detailed performance figures about the File
Server (for example, minimum, maximum, and cumulative statistics regarding
File Server RPCs, how long they take to complete, and how many succeed).
.Ip "\fB\-onceonly\fR" 4
Gathers statistics just one time. Omit this flag to have the command
continue to probe the Cache Manager for statistics at the frequency
specified by the \fB\-frequency\fR argument; in this case press Ctrl-C to stop
the probes.
.Ip "\fB\-frequency\fR <\fIpoll frequency\fR>" 4
Sets the frequency in seconds at which the program initiates probes to the
Cache Manager. The default is 30 seconds.
.Ip "\fB\-period\fR <\fIdata collection time\fR>" 4
Sets the number of minutes the program runs; at the end of this period of
time, the program exits. The default is 10 minutes.
.Ip "\fB\-debug\fR" 4
Displays a trace on the standard output stream as the command runs.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIxstat_cm_test(1)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "XSTAT_FS_TEST 1"
.IX Name "xstat_fs_test - Displays data collections from the File Server process"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fIinitcmd\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-fsname\fR <\fIfile server name to monitor\fR>+"

.IX Item "\fB\-collID\fR <\fIcollection to fetch\fR>+"

.IX Item "0"

.IX Item "1"

.IX Item "2"

.IX Item "\fB\-onceonly\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-frequency\fR <\fIpoll frequency\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-period\fR <\fIdata collection time\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-debug\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

