=head1 NAME

aklog - Obtain tokens for authentication to AFS

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<aklog> [B<-d>] [B<-hosts>] [B<-zsubs>] [B<-noprdb>] [B<-noauth>] [B<-linked>]
    [B<-force>] [B<-524>] [B<-setpag>]
    S<<< [[B<-cell> | B<-c>] <I<cell>> [B<-k> <I<Kerberos realm>>]]+ >>>

B<aklog> [B<-d>] [B<-hosts>] [B<-zsubs>] [B<-noprdb>] [B<-noauth>] [B<-linked>]
    [B<-force>] [B<-524>] [B<-setpag>] [B<-path> | B<-p>] <I<path>>+

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<aklog> program authenticates to a cell in AFS by obtaining AFS
tokens.  If B<aklog> is invoked with no command-line arguments, it will
obtain tokens for the workstation's local cell.  It may be invoked with an
arbitrary number of cells and pathnames to obtain tokens for multiple
cells.  B<aklog> knows how to expand cell name abbreviations, so cells can
be referred to by enough letters to make the cell name unique among the
cells the workstation knows about.

B<aklog> obtains tokens by obtaining a Kerberos service ticket for the AFS
service and then storing it as a token.  By default, it obtains that
ticket from the realm corresponding to that cell (the upcase version of
the cell name), but a different realm for a particular cell can be
specified with B<-k>.  B<-k> cannot be used in B<-path> mode (see below).

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-524>

Normally, B<aklog> generates native K5 tokens.  This flag tells B<aklog>
to instead use the krb524 translation service to generate K4 or rxkad2b
tokens, which may be necessary for AFS cells that don't support native K5
tokens.  Support for native K5 tokens were added in OpenAFS 1.2.8.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell>>, B<-c> <I<cell>>

This flag tells B<aklog> that the next argument is the name of a cell to
authenticate to.  It normally isn't necessary; B<aklog> normally
determines whether an argument is a cell or a path name based on whether
it contains C</> or is C<.> or C<..>.  The cell may be followed by B<-k>
to specify the corresponding Kerberos realm.

=item B<-d>

Turns on printing of debugging information.  This option is not intended
for general users.

=item B<-force>

Normally, aklog will not replace tokens with new tokens that appear to be
identical.  If this flag is given, it will skip that check.

=item B<-hosts>

Prints all the server addresses which may act as a single point of
failure in accessing the specified directory path.  Each element of the
path is examined, and as new volumes are traversed, if they are not
replicated, the server's IP address containing the volume will be
displayed.  The output is of the form:

    host: <ip-address>

This option is only useful in combination with paths as arguments rather
than cells.

=item B<-k> <I<Kerberos realm>>

This flag is valid only immediately after the name of the cell.  It tells
B<aklog> to use that Kerberos realm when authenticating to the preceding
cell.  By default, B<aklog> will use the realm (per the local Kerberos
configuration) of the first database server in the cell, so this flag
normally won't be necessary.

=item B<-linked>

If the AFS cell is linked to a DCE cell, get tokens for both.

=item B<-noauth>

Don't actually authenticate, just do everything else B<aklog> does up to
setting tokens.

=item B<-noprdb>

Ordinarily, B<aklog> looks up the AFS ID corresponding to the name of the
person invoking the command, and if the user doesn't exist and the cell is
a foreign one, attempts automatic registration of the user with the remote
cell.  Specifying this flag turns off this functionality.  This may be
desirable if the protection database is unavailable for some reason and
tokens are desired anyway, or if one wants to disable user registration.

=item B<-path> <I<pathname>>, B<-p> <I<pathname>>

This flag tells B<aklog> that the next argument is a path in AFS.
B<aklog> will walk that path and obtain tokens for every cell needed to
access all of the directories.  Normally, this flag isn't necessary;
B<aklog> assumes an argument is a path if it contains C</> or is C<.> or
C<..>.

=item B<-setpag>

When setting tokens, attempt to put the parent process in a new PAG.  This
is usually used as part of the login process but can be used any time to
create a new AFS authentication context.

=item B<-zsubs>

Prints out the Zephyr subscription information to get alerts regarding all
of the file servers required to access a particular path.  The output is
of the form:

    zsub: <instance>

where <instance> is the instance of a class C<filsrv> Zephyr subscription.

=back

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item F<~/.xlog>

If this file exists in the user's home directory, it should contain a list
of AFS cells to which to authenticate, one per line.  If B<aklog> is
invoked without any options, it will attempt to obtain tokens in every
cell listed in this file if it exists, rather than only obtaining tokens
for the local cell.

=back

=head1 EXIT CODES

The exit status of B<aklog> will be one of the following:

=over 3

=item 0

Success -- No error occurred.

=item 1

Usage -- Bad command syntax; accompanied by a usage message.

=item 2

Something failed -- More than one cell or pathname was given on the
command line and at least one failure occurred.  A more specific error
status is returned when only one directive is given.

=item 3

AFS -- Unable to get AFS configuration or unable to get information about
a specific cell.

=item 4

Kerberos -- Unable to get tickets for authentication.

=item 5

Token -- Unable to get tokens.

=item 6

Bad pathname -- The path given was not a directory or lstat(2) failed on
some component of the pathname.

=item 7

Miscellaneous -- An internal failure occurred.  For example, B<aklog>
returns this if it runs out of memory.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

To get tokens for the local cell:

    % aklog

To get tokens for the C<athena.mit.edu> cell:

    % aklog athena.mit.edu

or

    % aklog athena

The latter will work if you local cache manager already knows about the
C<athena> cell.

To get tokens adequate to read F</afs/athena.mit.edu/user/p/potato>:

    % aklog /afs/athena.mit.edu/user/p/potato

To get tokens for C<testcell.mit.edu> that is in a test Kerberos realm:

    % aklog testcell.mit.edu -k TESTREALM.MIT.EDU

=head1 SEE ALSO

kinit(1), tokens(1), unlog(1)

=head1 AUTHOR

Manpage originally written by Emanuel Jay Berkenbilt (MIT-Project
Athena).  Extensively modified by Russ Allbery <rra@stanford.edu>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Original manpage is copyright 1990, 1991 Massachusetts Institute of
Technology.  All rights reserved.

Copyright 2006 Russ Allbery <rra@stanford.edu>.

Export of this software from the United States of America may require
a specific license from the United States Government.  It is the
responsibility of any person or organization contemplating export to
obtain such a license before exporting.

WITHIN THAT CONSTRAINT, permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute
this software and its documentation for any purpose and without fee is
hereby granted, provided that the above copyright notice appear in all
copies and that both that copyright notice and this permission notice
appear in supporting documentation, and that the name of M.I.T. not be
used in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the
software without specific, written prior permission.  Furthermore if you
modify this software you must label your software as modified software and
not distribute it in such a fashion that it might be confused with the
original MIT software.  M.I.T. makes no representations about the
suitability of this software for any purpose.  It is provided "as is"
without express or implied warranty.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED ``AS IS'' AND WITHOUT ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTIBILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

=cut
