=head1 NAME

dlog - Authenticates to the DCE Security Service

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<dlog> [B<-principal> <I<user name>>]  [-cell <I<cell name>>]  
[B<-password> <I<user's password>>]  [B<-servers> <I<explicit list of servers>>+]  
     [-lifetime <I<ticket lifetime in hh[:mm[:ss]]>>]  
     [B<-setpag>]  [B<-pipe>]  [-help]

B<dlog> [B<-pr> <I<user name>>]  [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [-pw <I<user's password>>] 
[B<-ser> <I<explicit list of servers>>+]  
     [B<-l> <I<ticket lifetime in hh[:mm[:ss]]>>]  [B<-set>]  [B<-pi>]  [-h]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The dlog command obtains DCE credentials for the issuer from the
DCE Security Service in the cell named by the B<-cell> argument, and
stores them on the AFS client machine on which the user issues the
command. The AFS/DFS Migration Toolkit Protocol Translator processes
running on machines in the DCE cell accept the credentials, which enables the
user to access the DCE cell's filespace from the AFS client. The
user's identity in the local file system is unchanged.

If the issuer does not provide the -principal argument, the
B<dlog> command interpreter uses the user name under which the issuer
is logged into the local file system. Provide the DCE password for the
appropriate user name. As with the B<klog> command, the
password does not cross the network in clear text (unless the issuer is logged
into the AFS client from a remote machine).

The credentials are valid for a lifetime equivalent to the smallest of the
following, all but the last of which is defined by the DCE cell's
Security Server:

=over 4

=item *

The maximum certificate lifetime for the issuer's DCE account


=item *

The maximum certificate lifetime for the afs principal's
DCE account


=item *

The registry-wide maximum certificate lifetime


=item *

The registry-wide default certificate lifetime


=item *

The lifetime requested using the -lifetime argument


=back

If the previous maximum certificate lifetime values are set to
B<default-policy>, the maximum possible ticket lifetime is defined by
the default certificate lifetime. Refer to the DCE vendor's
administration guide for more information before setting any of these
values.

The AFS Cache Manager stores the ticket in a credential structure
associated with the name of the issuer (or the user named by the
B<-principal> argument. If the user already has a ticket for
the DCE cell, the ticket resulting from this command replaces it in the
credential structure.

The AFS tokens command displays the ticket obtained by the
B<dlog> command for the server principal B<afs>, regardless of
the principal to which it is actually granted. Note that the
B<tokens> command does not distinguish tickets for a DFSTM
File Server from tickets for an AFS File Server.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -principal

Specifies the DCE user name for which to obtain DCE credentials. If
this option is omitted, the B<dlog> command interpreter uses the name
under which the issuer is logged into the local file system.

=item -cell

Specifies the DCE cell in which to authenticate. During a single
login session on a given machine, a user can authenticate in multiple cells
simultaneously, but can have only one ticket at a time for each cell (that is,
it is possible to authenticate under only one identity per cell per
machine). It is legal to abbreviate the cell name to the shortest form
that distinguishes it from the other cells listed in the
B</usr/vice/etc/CellServDB> file on the local client machine.

If the issuer does not provide the -cell argument, the
B<dlog> command attempts to authenticate with the DCE Security Server
for the cell defined by 

=item *

The value of the environment variable AFSCELL on the local AFS client
machine, if defined. The issuer can set the AFSCELL environment
variable to name the desired DCE cell.


=item *

The cell name in the /usr/vice/etc/ThisCell file on the local
AFS client machine. The machine's administrator can place the
desired DCE cell's name in the file.


=item -password

Specifies the password for the issuer (or for the user named by the
B<-principal> argument). Using this argument is not
recommended, because it makes the password visible on the command line.
If this argument is omitted, the command prompts for the password and does not
echo it visibly.

=item -servers

Specifies a list of DFS database server machines running the Translator
Server through which the AFS client machine can attempt to
authenticate. Specify each server by hostname, shortened machine name,
or IP address. If this argument is omitted, the B<dlog> command
interpreter randomly selects a machine from the list of DFS Fileset Location
(FL) Servers in the B</usr/vice/etc/CellServDB> file for the DCE cell
specified by the B<-cell> argument. This argument is useful for
testing when authentication seems to be failing on certain server
machines.

=item -lifetime

Requests a ticket lifetime using the format
I<hh>B<:>I<mm>[B<:>I<ss>]
(hours, minutes, and optionally a number seconds between 00 and 59).
For example, the value B<168:30> requests a ticket lifetime of 7
days and 30 minutes, and B<96:00> requests a lifetime of 4
days. Acceptable values range from B<00:05> (5 minutes)
to B<720:00> (30 days). If this argument is not provided
and no other determinants of ticket lifetime have been changed from their
defaults, ticket lifetime is 10 hours.

The requested lifetime must be smaller than any of the DCE cell's
determinants for ticket lifetime; see the discussion in the preceding
B<Description> section.

=item -setpag

Creates a process authentication group (PAG) in which the newly created
ticket is placed. If this flag is omitted, the ticket is instead
associated with the issuers' local user ID (UID).

=item -pipe

Suppresses any prompts that the command interpreter otherwise produces,
including the prompt for the issuer's password. Instead, the
command interpreter accepts the password via the standard input stream.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

If the dlog command interpreter cannot contact a Translator
Server, it produces a message similar to the following:

   dlog: server or network not responding -- failed to contact
   authentication service

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command authenticates the issuer as cell_admin in
the B<dce.abc.com> cell.

   % dlog -principal cell_admin -cell dce.abc.com
   Password: I<cell_admin's password>

In the following example, the issuer authenticates as cell_admin
to the B<dce.abc.com> cell and request a ticket lifetime
of 100 hours. The B<tokens> command confirms that the user
obtained DCE credentials as the user B<cell_admin>: the AFS ID
is equivalent to the UNIX ID of B<1> assigned to B<cell_admin>
in B<dce.abc.com> cell's DCE registry.

   % dlog -principal cell_admin -cell dce.abc.com -lifetime 100
   Password: I<cell_admin's password>

   % tokens
   Tokens held by the Cache Manager:
   
   User's (AFS ID 1) tokens for afs@dce.abc.com [Expires Jul 6 14:12] 
   User's (AFS ID 4758) tokens for afs@abc.com [Expires Jul 2 13:14] 
 
      --End of list--
   

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<dpass(1)>,
L<klog(1)>,
L<tokens(1)>,
L<unlog(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
