=head1 NAME

dpass - Returns the DCE password for a new DCE account

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<dpass> [B<-cell> <I<original AFS cell name>>] [B<-help>]

B<dpass> [B<-c> <I<original AFS cell name>>] [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<dpass> command returns the DCE password that an administrator
assigned to the issuer when using the B<dm pass> command to migrate AFS
user accounts into a DCE cell.

The B<dpass> command, issued on an AFS client, requests the issuer's new
DCE password from the AFS cell specified with the B<-cell> argument.

The issuer must be authenticated as the AFS user whose AFS account was
moved into DCE, and be able to provide the user's AFS password when
prompted by the B<dpass> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Specifies the name of the AFS cell from which the AFS account was moved
into DCE and from which to fetch the new DCE password.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

By default, the dpass command writes a message similar to the following to
the standard output stream.

   Please read the following message before entering your password.

   This program will display your new, temporary DCE password on your
   terminal, and you should change the assigned password as soon as
   possible (from a DCE client).  The program assumes that the AFS cell
   uses the AFS Authentication Server and that an administrator used the
   utilities in the AFS/DFS Migration Toolkit to migrate the account from
   AFS to DCE. The password you enter should be the AFS password that was
   in effect when your DCE account was created; this is not necessarily
   the same password you have at the moment.  The cell name (which you may
   override with a command line option), must be the name of the AFS cell
   from which the authentication information was taken.

To suppress this message, set the DPASS_NO_MESSAGE environment
variable. It is then possible to substitute a customized message if
desired by using a script similar to the following example:

   #! /bin/csh
   echo "I<Start of customized message>"
   echo "I<Continuation of customized message>"
     .
     .
     .
   echo "I<Conclusion of customized message>"
   setenv DPASS_NO_MESSAGE
   dpass $*

After the standard or customized message, if any, the dpass command
generates the following prompt for the original AFS password:

   Original password for AFS cell <cell>:
   Re-enter password to verify:

If the AFS passwords match and are correct, the command reports the
temporary DCE password in the following message.

   The new DCE password is: <Issuer's_temporary_DCE_password

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example returns the DCE password of the issuer, whose AFS
account is in the C<abc.com> cell. The DPASS_NO_MESSAGE variable has been
set to suppress the standard message.

   % dpass
   Original password for AFS cell abc.com: <Issuer's_AFS_password>
   Re-enter password to verify: <Issuer's_AFS_password>
   The new DCE password is: 8655--eg8e-dcdc-8157

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be authenticated as the AFS user for whom to display the
corresponding DCE password.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<dlog(1)>

B<dm pass> reference page in I<IBM AFS/DFS Migration Toolkit
Administration Guide and Reference>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
