=head1 NAME

fs - Introduction to the fs command suite

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The commands in the B<fs> command suite constitute the main administrative
interface to the Cache Manager on an AFS client machine, which is
responsible for fetching AFS data from file server machines on behalf of
applications running on the client machine.

There are several categories of commands in the B<fs> command suite:

=over 4

=item *

Commands to set and report how the Cache Manager interacts with server
machines:
L<B<fs checkservers>|fs_checkservers(1)>,
L<B<fs getcellstatus>|fs_getcellstatus(1)>,
L<B<fs getcrypt>|fs_getcrypt(1)>,
L<B<fs getserverprefs>|fs_getserverprefs(1)>,
L<B<fs listcells>|fs_listcells(1)>,
L<B<fs newcell>|fs_newcell(1)>,
L<B<fs setcell>|fs_setcell(1)>,
L<B<fs setcrypt>|fs_setcrypt(1)>,
L<B<fs setserverprefs>|fs_setserverprefs(1)>,
L<B<fs sysname>|fs_sysname(1)>,
and L<B<fs wscell>|fs_wscell(1)>.

=item *

Commands to administer access control lists (ACLs):
L<B<fs cleanacl>|fs_cleanacl(1)>,
L<B<fs copyacl>|fs_copyacl(1)>,
L<B<fs listacl>|fs_listacl(1)>,
and L<B<fs setacl>|fs_setacl(1)>.

=item *

Commands to administer server machines, volumes or partitions that house a
given file or directory:
L<B<fs diskfree>|fs_diskfree(1)>,
L<B<fs examine>|fs_examine(1)>,
L<B<fs listquota>|fs_listquota(1)>,
L<B<fs quota>|fs_quota(1)>,
L<B<fs setquota>|fs_setquota(1)>,
L<B<fs setvol>|fs_setvol(1)>,
L<B<fs whereis>|fs_whereis(1)>,
and L<B<fs whichcell>|fs_whichcell(1)>.

=item *

Commands to administer the local client cache and related information:
L<B<fs checkvolumes>|fs_checkvolumes(1)>,
L<B<fs flush>|fs_flush(1)>,
L<B<fs flushvolume>|fs_flushvolume(1)>,
L<B<fs getcacheparms>|fs_getcacheparms(1)>,
L<B<fs listaliases>|fs_listaliases(1)>,
L<B<fs newalias>|fs_newalias(1)>,
and L<B<fs setcachesize>|fs_setcachesize(1)>.

=item *

Commands to administer volume mount points:
L<B<fs lsmount>|fs_lsmount(1)>,
L<B<fs mkmount>|fs_mkmount(1)>,
and L<B<fs rmmount>|fs_rmmount(1)>.

=item *

Commands to control monitoring and tracing:
L<B<fs debug>|fs_debug(1)>,
and L<B<fs messages>|fs_messages(1)>.

=item *

A command to administer the Cache Manager's interaction with other
file systems:
L<B<fs exportafs>|fs_exportafs(1)>.

=item *

Commands to obtain help:
L<B<fs apropos>|fs_apropos(1)>
and L<B<fs help>|fs_help(1)>.

=back

The Cache Manager and the fs commands use and maintain the following
configuration files:

=over 4

=item F</usr/vice/etc/CellServDB>

Lists the database server machines in the local cell and any foreign cell
to which the administrator wishes to enable AFS access for users working
on the machine. The database server machines run the Authentication,
Backup, Protection and Volume Location (VL) Server processes, which
maintain databases of administrative information. For users to access a
cell, its C<root.cell> volume must also be mounted in the local cell's AFS
file tree.

=item F</usr/vice/etc/ThisCell>

Defines the machine's cell membership with respect to the AFS command
suites and Cache Manager access to AFS data.

=item F</usr/vice/etc/cacheinfo>

Defines configuration parameters for the cache, including its size and
whether it is in memory or on disk.

=back

In addition, the Cache Manager automatically creates files on the cache
partition (by default, F</usr/vice/cache> for caching and tracking files
fetched from file server machines.

For more details, see the reference page for each file.

=head1 OPTIONS

The following flag is available on every command in the fs suite. The
reference page for each command also lists it, but it is described here in
greater detail.

=over 4

=item B<-help>

Prints a command's online help message on the standard output stream. Do
not combine this flag with any of the command's other options; when it is
provided, the command interpreter ignores all other options, and only
prints the help message.

=back

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The privileges required for fs commands vary more than for other command
suites. Pay special attention to the PRIVILEGE REQUIRED section of each
command description.

The various types of necessary privilege include:

=over 4

=item *

Having permissions on a directory's ACL. For example, creating and
removing mount points requires C<a> (administer), C<i> (insert), and C<d>
(delete) permissions on the ACL of the directory in which the mount point
resides.

=item *

Being logged onto the machine as the local superuser C<root>. This is
necessary when issuing commands that affect Cache Manager configuration.

=item *

Belonging to the system:administrators group in the Protection Database.

=item *

No privilege. Many B<fs> commands simply list information.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<afs_cache(5)>,
L<CellServDB(5)>,
L<ThisCell(5)>
L<cacheinfo(5)>,
L<fs_apropos(1)>,
L<fs_checkservers(1)>,
L<fs_checkvolumes(1)>,
L<fs_cleanacl(1)>,
L<fs_copyacl(1)>,
L<fs_diskfree(1)>,
L<fs_examine(1)>,
L<fs_exportafs(1)>,
L<fs_flush(1)>,
L<fs_flushmount(1)>,
L<fs_flushvolume(1)>,
L<fs_getcacheparms(1)>,
L<fs_getcellstatus(1)>,
L<fs_getclientaddrs(1)>,
L<fs_getcrypt(1)>,
L<fs_getserverprefs(1)>,
L<fs_help(1)>,
L<fs_listacl(1)>,
L<fs_listaliases(1)>,
L<fs_listcells(1)>,
L<fs_listquota(1)>,
L<fs_lsmount(1)>,
L<fs_messages(1)>,
L<fs_mkmount(1)>,
L<fs_newalias(1)>,
L<fs_newcell(1)>,
L<fs_quota(1)>,
L<fs_rmmount(1)>,
L<fs_setacl(1)>,
L<fs_setcachesize(1)>,
L<fs_setcell(1)>,
L<fs_setclientaddrs(1)>,
L<fs_setcrypt(1)>,
L<fs_setquota(1)>,
L<fs_setserverprefs(1)>,
L<fs_setvol(1)>,
L<fs_storebehind(1)>,
L<fs_sysname(1)>,
L<fs_whereis(1)>,
L<fs_whichcell(1)>,
L<fs_wscell(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
