=head1 NAME

fs_chown - Changes the owner for an object stored within AFS [Windows only]

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<fs chown> S<<< B<-owner> <I<owner>> >>> S<<< B<-path> <I<dir/file path>>+ >>> 
    [B<-literal>][B<-help>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fs chown> command assigns the specified B<owner> to each object 
specified with the B<-path>.

If the B<-literal> argument is specified, the targets of symlinks and mountpoints 
are not resolved.  This permits the ownership of the symlink or 
mountpoint to be assigned.

The B<owner> can be specified by name or by number.  If specified by 
name, the name will be resolved to the numeric value by querying the
protection server in the cell for each specified B<-path> object.

To display the current owner, use the B<fs examine> command.

=head1 CAUTIONS

Explicit or implicit administrator access rights are required to be able to 
change the owner of an object stored in AFS.  Changing ownership can alter
the current user's implicit rights.

This command is available in versions of OpenAFS for Windows 1.5.61 and higher.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-owner> <I<owner>>

A valid name or number of a user identifier in the Protection Service
database.  

=item B<-path> <I<dir/file path>>+

Names each AFS directory or file, on which the owner will be set.
Partial pathnames are interpreted relative to the current working
directory.

Specify the read/write path to each directory to avoid the
failure that results from attempting to change a read-only volume. By
convention, the read/write path is indicated by placing a period before
the cell name at the pathname's second level (for example,
F</afs/.example.com>). For further discussion of the concept of read/write and
read-only paths through the filespace, see the B<fs mkmount> reference
page.

=item B<-literal>

When specified, the targets of symlinks and mountpoints are not resolved.  
This permits the ownership of the symlink or mountpoint to be assigned.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the C<a> (administer) permission on the directory's
ACL, a member of the system:administrators group, or, as a special case,
must be the UID owner of the top-level directory of the volume containing
the object.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_examine(1)>,
L<fs_chgrp(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

This document was written by Jeffrey Altman and is released under the BSD license.
