=head1 NAME

fs diskfree - Shows data about the partition housing a directory or file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<fs diskfree> [B<-path> <I<dir/file path>>+] [B<-help>]

B<fs df> [B<-p> <I<dir/file path>>+] [B<-h>]

B<fs di> [B<-p> <I<dir/file path>>+] [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fs diskfree> command formats and displays information about the
partition that houses the volume containing the specified directory or
file, including its size and how much space is currently used.

To display information about the volume itself, use the B<fs examine>
command. The B<fs examine> and B<fs quota> commands also display
information about a volume.

=head1 CAUTIONS

The partition-related statistics in this command's output do not always
agree with the corresponding values in the output of the standard UNIX
B<df> command. The statistics reported by this command can be up to five
minutes old, because the Cache Manager polls the File Server for partition
information at that frequency. Also, on some operating systems, the B<df>
command's report of partition size includes reserved space not included in
this command's calculation, and so is likely to be about 10% larger.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-path> <I<dir/file path>>+

Names a file or directory that resides on the partition about which to
produce output. Partial pathnames are interpreted relative to the current
working directory, which is also the default value if this argument is
omitted.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output reports the following information about the volume and
partition that houses each file or directory:

=over 4

=item Volume Name

The name of the volume.

=item kbytes

The partition's total size in kilobytes.

=item used

The number of kilobytes used on the partition.

=item avail

The number of kilobytes available on the partition.

=item %used

The percentage of the partition's total space that is used (the C<used>
statistic divided by the C<kbytes> statistic, times 100).

=back

If the C<%used> statistic is greater than 90%, it is marked with the
string C<<< <<WARNING >>> at the right margin.

If the volume is a read-only volume, the output includes information about
only one of the partitions that houses it, generally the one on the file
server machine with the lowest preference rank. To verify which machine
the output is referring to, use the B<vos listvldb> command to list the
volume's locations, and the B<vos partinfo> command to display the size of
each one.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows the output for the partitions housing the
volumes C<user.smith> and C<sun4x_56.bin>:

   % fs diskfree -path /afs/abc.com/usr/smith /afs/abc.com/sun4x_56/bin
   Volume Name     kbytes  used     avail     %used     
   user.smith     4177920 3841258  336662       92% <<WARNING
   sun4x_56.bin   4423680 3174500 1249180       72%

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the C<l> (lookup) permission on the ACL of the root
directory of the volume that houses the file or directory named by the
B<-path> argument, and on the ACL of each directory that precedes it in
the pathname.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_examine(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
