=head1 NAME

fs_examine - Shows data about the volume containing a directory or file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<fs examine> S<<< [B<-path> <I<dir/file path>>+] >>> [B<-help>]

B<fs exa> S<<< [B<-p> <I<dir/file path>>+] >>> [B<-h>]

B<fs listvol> S<<< [B<-p> <I<dir/file path>>+] >>> [B<-h>]

B<fs listv> S<<< [B<-p> <I<dir/file path>>+] >>> [B<-h>]

B<fs lv> S<<< [B<-p> <I<dir/file path>>+] >>> [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The fs examine command displays information about the volume containing
each specified directory or file, including its volume ID number, quota
and the percentage of its quota that is used.

This command provides the most information about a volume, but the B<fs
listquota> command displays similar information in tabular format, and the
B<fs quota> command reports only the percentage of quota used.

To set volume quota, use the B<fs setquota> or B<fs setvol> command.

=head1 CAUTIONS

The partition-related statistics in this command's output do not always
agree with the corresponding values in the output of the standard UNIX
B<df> command. The statistics reported by this command can be up to five
minutes old, because the Cache Manager polls the File Server for partition
information at that frequency. Also, on some operating systems, the B<df>
command's report of partition size includes reserved space not included in
this command's calculation, and so is likely to be about 10% larger.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-path> <I<dir/file path>>+

Names a file or directory that resides in the volume about which to
produce output. Partial pathnames are interpreted relative to the current
working directory, which is also the default value if this argument is
omitted.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output displays information about the volume that houses each
specified directory or file, in the following format

   Volume status for vid = I<volume ID> named I<volume name>
   Current offline message is I<message>
   Current disk quota is I<quota in kilobytes>
   Current blocks used are I<volume size in kilobytes>
   The partition has I<available partition> blocks available out of
      I<partition size>

where the first line specifies the volume's ID number and name.  The
C<Current offline message> line appears only if an administrator has
included the B<-offlinemsg> argument to the B<fs setvol> command. The
remaining lines report, respectively,

=over 4

=item *

The volume's quota in kilobytes, or the string C<unlimited> to indicate an
unlimited quota.

=item *

The volume's current size in kilobytes.

=item *

The number of blocks available and total size of the host partition, both
in kilobytes.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows the output for the volume C<user.smith> and
the partition housing it:

   % fs examine -path /afs/abc.com/usr/smith
   Volume status for vid = 50489902 named user.smith
   Current maximum quota is 15000
   Current blocks used are 5073
   The partition has 336662 blocks available out of 4177920

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the C<l> (lookup) permission on the ACL of the root
directory of the volume that houses the file or directory named by the
B<-path> argument, and on the ACL of each directory that precedes it in
the pathname.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_listquota(1)>,
L<fs_quota(1)>,
L<fs_setquota(1)>,
L<fs_setvol(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
