=head1 NAME

fs flushmount - Forces the Cache Manager to discard a mount point

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<fs flushmount> S<<< [B<-path> <I<dir/file path>>+] >>> [B<-help>]

B<fs flushm> S<<< [B<-p> <I<dir/file path>>+] >>> [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fs flushmount> command removes from the cache all information
associated with each mount point named by the B<-path> argument. The next
time an application accesses the mount point, the Cache Manager fetches
the most current version of it from the File Server. Data cached from the
associated volume is not affected.

The command's intended use is to discard information about mount points
that has become corrupted in the cache. (The Cache Manager periodically
refreshes cached mount points, but the only other way to discard them
immediately is to reinitialize the Cache Manager by rebooting the
machine.) Symptoms of a corrupted mount point included garbled output from
the B<fs lsmount> command, and failed attempts to change directory to or
list the contents of a mount point.

To flush cached data rather than a mount point, use the B<fs flush> or
B<fs flushvolume> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-path> <I<dir/file path>>+

Names each mount point to flush from the cache. Partial pathnames are
interpreted relative to the current working directory, which is also the
default value if this argument is omitted.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command flushes from the cache the mount point for user
C<pat>'s home directory:

   % fs flushm /afs/abc.com/usr/pat

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the C<l> (lookup) permission on the ACL of the root
directory of the volume that houses the file or directory named by the
B<-path> argument, and on the ACL of each directory that precedes it in
the pathname.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_flush(1)>,
L<fs_flushvolume(1)>,
L<fs_lsmount(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
