=head1 NAME

fs flush - Forces the Cache Manager to discard a cached file or directory

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<fs flush> S<<< [B<-path> <I<dir/file path>>+] >>> [B<-help>]

B<fs flush> S<<< [B<-p> <I<dir/file path>>+] >>> [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fs flush> command removes from the cache all data and status
information associated with each specified file or directory. The next
time an application requests data from the flushed directory or file, the
Cache Manager fetches the most current version from a File Server, along
with a new callback (if necessary) and associated status information. This
command has no effect on two types of data:

=over 4

=item *

Data in application program buffers.

=item *

Data that has been changed locally and written to the cache but not yet
written to the copy on the file server machine.

=back

To flush all data in the cache that was fetched from the same volume as a
specified file or directory, use the B<fs flushvolume> command.  To flush
a corrupted mount point, use the B<fs flushmount> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-path> <I<dir/file path>>+

Names each file or directory to flush from the cache. If it is a
directory, only the directory element itself is flushed, not data cached
from files or subdirectories that reside in it. Partial pathnames are
interpreted relative to the current working directory, which is also the
default value if this argument is omitted.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command flushes from the cache the file C<projectnotes> in
the current working directory and all data from the subdirectory C<plans>:

   % fs flush -path projectnotes ./plans/*

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the C<l> (lookup) permission on the ACL of the root
directory of the volume that houses the file or directory named by the
B<-path> argument, and on the ACL of each directory that precedes it in
the pathname.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_flushmount(1)>,
L<fs_flushvolume(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
