=head1 NAME

fs flushvolume - Forces the Cache Manager to discard cached data from a volume

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<fs flushvolume> [B<-path> <I<dir/file path>>+] [B<-help>]

B<fs flushv> [B<-p> <I<dir/file path>>+] [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fs flushvolume> command removes from the cache all data that was
fetched from the same volume as each specified directory or file.  It does
not discard cached status information. The next time an application
requests data from a flushed directory or file, the Cache Manager fetches
the most current version from a File Server, along with a new callback (if
necessary) and associated status information. This command has no effect
on two types of data:

=over 4

=item *

Data in application program buffers.

=item *

Data that has been changed locally and written to the cache but not yet
written to the copy on the file server machine.

=back

To discard the data and status information associated with individual
files and directories, use the B<fs flush> command. To flush a corrupted
mount point, use the B<fs flushmount> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-path> <I<dir/file path>>+

Names a file or directory from each volume for which to discard all cached
data. Partial pathnames are interpreted relative to the current working
directory, which is also the default value if this argument is omitted.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command flushes from the cache all data fetched from the
volume that contains the current working directory:

   % fs flushvolume 

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the C<l> (lookup) permission on the ACL of the root
directory of the volume that houses the file or directory named by the
B<-path> argument, and on the ACL of each directory that precedes it in
the pathname.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_flush(1)>,
L<fs_flushmount(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
