=head1 NAME

fs_getclientaddrs - Displays the client interfaces to register

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<fs getclientaddrs> [B<-help>]

B<fs gc> [B<-h>]

B<fs getcl> [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fs getclientaddrs> command displays the IP addresses of the
interfaces that the local Cache Manager registers with a File Server when
first establishing a connection to it.

The File Server uses the addresses when it initiates a remote procedure
call (RPC) to the Cache Manager (as opposed to responding to an RPC sent
by the Cache Manager). There are two common circumstances in which the
File Server initiates RPCs: when it breaks callbacks and when it pings the
client machine to verify that the Cache Manager is still accessible.

If an RPC to that interface fails, the File Server simultaneously sends
RPCs to all of the other interfaces in the list, to learn which of them
are still available. Whichever interface replies first is the one to which
the File Server then sends pings and RPCs to break callbacks.

L<fs_setclientaddrs(1)> explains how the Cache Manager constructs the list
automatically in kernel memory as it initializes, and how to use that
command to alter the kernel list after initialization.

=head1 CAUTIONS

The File Server uses the list of interfaces displayed by this command only
when selecting an alternative interface after a failed attempt to break a
callback or ping the Cache Manager. When responding to the Cache Manager's
request for file system data, the File Server replies to the interface
which the Cache Manager used when sending the request. If the File
Server's reply to a data request fails, the file server machine's network
routing configuration determines which alternate network routes to the
client machine are available for resending the reply.

The displayed list applies to all File Servers to which the Cache Manager
connects in the future. It is not practical to register different sets of
addresses with different File Servers, because it requires using the B<fs
setclientaddrs> command to change the list and then rebooting each
relevant File Server immediately.

The displayed list is not necessarily governing the behavior of a given
File Server, if an administrator has issued the B<fs setclientaddrs>
command since the Cache Manager first contacted that File Server. It
determines only which addresses the Cache Manager registers when
connecting to File Servers in the future.

The list of interfaces does not influence the Cache Manager's choice of
interface when establishing a connection to a File Server.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output displays the IP address of each interface that the Cache
Manager is currently registering with File Server processes that it
contacts, with one address per line. The File Server initially uses the
first address for breaking callbacks and pinging the Cache Manager, but
the ordering of the other interfaces is not meaningful.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example displays the two interfaces that the Cache Manager
is registering with File Servers.

   % fs getclientaddrs
   192.12.105.68
   192.12.108.84

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fileserver(8)>,
L<fs_setclientaddrs(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
