=head1 NAME

fs_getcalleraccess - Show the current user's access to a file or directory

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<fs getcalleraccess> S<<< [B<-path> <I<path>>+] >>> [B<-help>]

B<fs gca> S<<< [B<-p> <I<path>>] >>> [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fs getcalleraccess> command displays the access that the current
user has to the specified path using the same representation as B<fs
listacl>.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=item B<-path> <I<path>>+

The B<-path> option specifies the path on which to operate. B<-path> may
be omitted. If this option isn't given, the default is to act on the
current directory.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

For each path, B<fs getcalleraccess> outputs a line like:

    Callers access to <directory> is <rights>

where <directory> is the path on which it is operating and <rights> is an
ACL string in the same format as is returned by B<fs listacl>. See
L<fs_listacl(1)> for more information about AFS ACL strings.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command shows the current user's access to the path
F</afs/openafs.org>, which is read and lookup access.

   % fs getcalleraccess /afs/openafs.org
   Callers access to /afs/openafs.org is rl
   %

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

No special privileges are required for this command.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_listacl(1)>,
L<fs_setacl(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007 Jason Edgecombe <jason@rampaginggeek.com>

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0. This
man page was written by Jason Edgecombe for OpenAFS.
