=head1 NAME

fs_getcrypt - Displays the state of encryption for AFS file transfers

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<fs getcrypt> [B<-help>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fs getcrypt> command shows the status of network traffic encryption
for file traffic in the AFS client. This encryption applies to file
traffic going to and coming from the AFS server for users with valid
tokens. The complement of this command is B<fs setcrypt> which sets the
status of encryption on the client.

=head1 CAUTIONS

AFS uses an encryption scheme called fcrypt, based on but slightly weaker
than DES. Because fcrypt and DES are obsolete, the user must decide how
much to trust the encryption. Consider using a Virtual Private Network at
the IP level if better encryption is needed.

Encrypting file traffic requires a token. Unauthenticated connections or
connections authorized via IP-based ACLs will not be encrypted even when
encryption is turned on.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

If encryption is enabled, the output is:

   Security level is currently crypt (data security).

If encryption if disabled, the output is:

   Security level is currently clear.

=head1 EXAMPLES

There is only one way to invoke B<fs getcrypt>:

   % fs getcrypt

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

No special priviledges are required for this command.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_setcrypt(1)>

The description of the fcrypt encryption mechanism at
L<http://surfvi.com/~ota/fcrypt-paper.txt>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007 Jason Edgecombe <jason@rampaginggeek.com>

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0. This
man page was written by Jason Edgecombe for OpenAFS.
