=head1 NAME

fs_getfid - Display the fid for a given path in AFS

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<fs getfid> S<<< [B<-path>] I<path> >>> [B<-literal>] [B<-help>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The fs getfid command displays the FID for a given path in AFS.  The FID
is the internal identifier used by AFS encoding the volume name and the
file within a volume.

=head1 CAUTIONS

This command is not available on Windows prior to version 1.5.60.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-path> I<path>

The path of the file (or directory).

=item B<-literal>

For a symlink or mount point, evaluates the specified object rather than
the object it refers to.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output contains the name of the file or directory, the FID, and the
cell containing the FID.  The Windows version also outputs the object
type instead of using "File" to describe all objects.

=head1 EXAMPLES

On Unix:

   % fs getfid .
   File . (536870918.1.1) located in cell example.com

   % fs getfid /afs/example.com/foo 
   File /afs/example.com/foo (536870918.20404.20997) located in cell example.com

On Windows:

   % fs.exe getfid \\afs\example.edu\user\b\o\bob \
       \\afs\example.org\usr\bob\linktests\broken
   Directory \\afs\example.edu\user\b\o\bob (537235559.1.1) contained in cell example.edu
   fs: File '\\afs\example.org\usr\bob\linktests\broken' doesn't exist

   % fs.exe getfid \\afs\example.edu\user\b\o\bob \
       \\afs\example.org\usr\bob\linktests\broken -literal
   Mountpoint \\afs\example.edu\user\b\o\bob (536873032.1162.16997) contained in cell example.edu
   Symlink \\afs\example.org\usr\bob\linktests\broken (536874416.27618.488969) contained in cell example.org

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be have read access in the directory containing the path
to be resolved.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

This document was written by Steven Jenkins, and is released under the IBM
Public License Version 1.0.  Jeffrey Altman made several suggestions and
additions.
