=head1 NAME

fs_getcellstatus - Reports whether setuid programs are honored in a cell

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<fs getcellstatus> S<<< B<-cell> <I<cell name>>+ >>> [B<-help>]

B<fs getce> S<<< B<-c> <I<cell name>>+ >>> [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fs getcellstatus> command reports whether the Cache Manager allows
programs fetched from each specified cell to run with setuid
permission. To set a cell's setuid status, use the B<fs setcell> command;
L<fs_setcell(1)> fully describes how AFS treats setuid programs.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>+

Names each cell for which to report setuid status. Provide the fully
qualified domain name, or a shortened form that disambiguates it from the
other cells listed in the local F</usr/vice/etc/CellServDB> file.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output reports one of the following two values as appropriate:

   Cell <cell> status: setuid allowed
   Cell <cell> status: no setuid allowed

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example indicates that programs from the cell C<abc.com> are
not allowed to run with setuid permission.

   % fs getcellstatus abc.com
   Cell abc.com status: no setuid allowed

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<CellServDB(5)>,
L<fs_setcell(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
