=head1 NAME

fs listcells - Displays the database server machines in each cell known to the Cache
Manager

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<fs listcells> [B<-numeric>]  [-help]

B<fs listc> [B<-n>]  [-h]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The fs listcells command formats and displays the list of the
database server machines that the Cache Manager stores in kernel memory for
its home cell and foreign cells.

At each reboot of the client machine, the Cache Manager copies the contents
of B</usr/vice/etc/CellServDB> into kernel memory. To modify
the list between reboots, use the B<fs newcell> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -numeric

Displays each database server machine's IP address rather than
hostname.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output includes a line for each cell included in the Cache
Manager's kernel memory list, in the following format:

   Cell I<cell> on hosts I<database server machines>

The Cache Manager stores IP addresses, but by default has them translated
to hostnames before reporting them, by passing them to the cell's name
service (such as the Domain Name Service or a local host table). The
name service sometimes returns hostnames in uppercase letters, or an IP
address if it cannot resolve a name.

Using the -numeric flag bypasses the translation to hostnames,
which can result in significantly faster production of output. The
output includes IP addresses only.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows output for several cells as illustrations of
the different formats for machine names:

   % fs listcells
   Cell abc.com on hosts fs1.abc.com fs2.abc.com fs3.abc.com
   Cell stateu.edu on hosts DB1.FS.STATEU.EDU 
      DB2.FS.STATEU.EDU DB3.FS.STATEU.EDU
   Cell def.gov on hosts 138.255.0.2 sv3.def.gov

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<CellServDB (client version)(1)>

L<fs_newcell(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
