=head1 NAME

fs lsmount - Reports the volume for which a directory is the mount point.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<fs lsmount> S<<< B<-dir> <I<directory>>+ >>> [B<-help>]

S<<< B<fs ls -d> <I<directory>>+ >>> [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fs lsmount> command reports the volume for which each specified
directory is a mount point, or indicates with an error message that a
directory is not a mount point or is not in AFS.

To create a mount point, use the B<fs mkmount> command. To remove one, use
the B<fs rmmount> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-dir> <I<directory>>+

Names the directory that serves as a mount point for a volume. The last
element in the pathname provided must be an actual name, not a shorthand
notation such as one or two periods (C<.> or C<..>).

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

If the specified directory is a mount point, the output is of the
following form:

   '<directory>' is a mount point for volume '<volume name>'

where

=over 4

=item *

A number sign (C<#>) precedes the <volume name> string for a regular mount
point.

=item *

A percent sign (C<%>) precedes the <volume name> string for a read/write
mount point.

=item *

A cell name and colon (C<:>) follow the number or percent sign and precede
the <volume name> string for a cellular mount point.

=back

The B<fs mkmount> reference page explains how the Cache Manager interprets
each of the three types of mount points.

If the directory is a symbolic link to a mount point, the output is of the
form:

   '<directory>' is a symbolic link, leading to a mount point for volume
   '<volume name>'

If the directory is not a mount point or is not in AFS, the output reads:

   '<directory>' is not a mount point.

If the output is garbled, it is possible that the mount point has become
corrupted in the local AFS client cache. Use the B<fs flushmount> command
to discard it, which forces the Cache Manager to refetch the mount point.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows the mount point for the home directory of user
C<smith>:

   % fs lsmount /afs/abc.com/usr/smith
   '/afs/abc.com/usr/smith' is a mount point for volume '#user.smith'

The following example shows both the regular and read/write mount points
for the ABC Corporation cell's C<root.cell> volume.

   % fs lsmount /afs/abc.com
   '/afs/abc.com' is a mount point for volume '#root.cell'

   % fs lsmount /afs/.abc.com
   '/afs/.abc.com' is a mount point for volume '%root.cell'

The following example shows a cellular mount point: the State University
cell's C<root.cell> volume as mounted in the ABC Corporation cell's tree.

   % fs lsmount /afs/stateu.edu
   '/afs/stateu.edu' is a mount point for volume '#stateu.edu:root.cell'

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the C<l> (lookup) permission on the ACL of the root
directory of the volume that houses the file or directory named by the
B<-dir> argument, and on the ACL of each directory that precedes it in the
pathname.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_flushmount(1)>,
L<fs_mkmount(1)>,
L<fs_rmmount(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
