=head1 NAME

fs listquota - Displays quota information for the volume containing a file or
directory.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<fs listquota> [B<-path> <I<dir/file path>>+]  [-help]  

B<fs listq> [B<-p> <I<dir/file path>>+]  [-h]

B<fs lq> [B<-p> <I<dir/file path>>+]  [-h]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The fs listquota command displays information about the volume
containing each specified directory or file (its name, quota, and amount of
disk space used), along with an indicator of the percentage of space used on
the host partition.

To display more information about the host partition, use the fs
examine command.

To set volume quota, use the B<fs setquota> or fs setvol
command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -path

Names a file or directory that resides in the volume about which to
produce output. Partial pathnames are interpreted relative to the
current working directory, which is also the default value if this argument is
omitted.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output displays information about the volume that houses each specified
directory or file, in a tabular format that uses the following headers:

=over 4

=item C<Volume Name
>

The name of the volume.

=item C<Quota
>

The volume's quota in kilobytes, or the string C<no limit> to
indicate an unlimited quota.

=item C<Used
>

The number of kilobytes of quota used.

=item C<% Used
>

The percentage of the volume's quota that is used (the
C<Used> statistic divided by the C<Quota> statistic, times
100).

=item C<Partition
>

The percentage of space used on the partition that houses the
volume. Although not directly related to how much of the user's
quota is used, it is reported because a full partition can cause writing of
data back to the volume to fail even when the volume has not reached its
quota.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows the output for the volume
B<user.smith>:

   % fs listquota -path /afs/abc.com/usr/smith
   Volume Name     Quota    Used    % Used   Partition 
   user.smith      15000    5071       34%         86%   

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the B<l> (lookup) permission on the
ACL of the root directory of the volume that houses the file or directory
named by the B<-path> argument, and on the ACL of each directory that
precedes it in the pathname.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_diskfree(1)>,
L<fs_examine(1)>,
L<fs_quota(1)>,
L<fs_setquota(1)>,
L<fs_setvol(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
