=head1 NAME

fs messages - Sets whether the Cache Manager writes log messages

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<fs messages> S<<< [B<-show> (user|console|all|none)] >>> [B<-help>]

B<fs me> S<<< [B<-s> (user|console|all|none)] >>> [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fs messages> command controls whether the Cache Manager displays
status and warning messages on user screens, the client machine console,
on both, or on neither.

There are two types of Cache Manager messages:

=over 4

=item *

User messages provide user-level status and warning information, and the
Cache Manager directs them to user screens.

=item *

Console messages provide system-level status and warning information, and
the Cache Manager directs them to the client machine's designated console.

=back

Disabling messaging completely is not recommended, because the messages
provide useful status and warning information.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-show> (user|console|all|none)

Specifies the types of messages to display. Choose one of the following
values:

=over 4

=item user

Send user messages to user screens.

=item console

Send console messages to the console.

=item all

Send user messages to user screens and console messages to the console
(the default if the B<-show> argument is omitted).

=item none

Do not send any messages to user screens or the console.

=back

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command instructs the Cache Manager to display both types of
messages:

   % fs messages -show all

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be logged in as the local superuser root.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<afsd(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
