=head1 NAME

fs_newalias - Creates a new alias for a cell

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<fs newalias> S<<< [B<-alias>] <I<alias name>> >>>
    S<<< [B<-name>] <I<cell name>> >>> [B<-help>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fs newalias> command is used when the AFS Cache Manager is in
Dynamic Root (B<-dynroot>) mode. It creates a symbolic link in F</afs>
from an alias to the full name of the cell. It also creates a symbolic
link from the alias prepended with C<.> to the full name of the cell
prepended with C<.>, the convention for access to the read/write version
of the C<root.cell> volume of that cell.

This command is used to supplement aliases created via the F<CellAlias>
configuration file when B<afsd> starts.

Traditionally, these aliases would be created by the local AFS
administrator by creating symbolic links in the C<root.afs> volume. Such
symlinks do not appear when Dynamic Root is enabled because, with Dynamic
Root, the Cache Manager does not mount or look at the C<root.afs>
volume. This alias capability is a replacement that allows such short
names to be created under client control.

=head1 CAUTIONS

Aliases created with B<fs newcell> are only temporary and will be lost
when the AFS Cache Manager is restarted or the client machine is
rebooted. In order to make the alias permanent, it must be put into the
F<CellAlias> file.

There is no way to remove an alias once created without restarting the
AFS Cache Manager.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-alias> <I<alias name>>

This is the short name to which the user wants to map the real cell name.

=item B<-name> <I<cell name>>

This is the real cell name.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

This command has no output.

=head1 EXAMPLES

There are two ways to call B<fs newalias>:

   % fs newalias openafs openafs.org
   % fs newalias -alias openafs -name openafs.org

Both of the above examples create an alias C<openafs> for the cell
C<openafs.org>. Two links wil be created in F</afs>:

   /afs/openafs   ->  /afs/openafs.org
   /afs/.openafs  ->  /afs/.openafs.org

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be logged in as the local superuser root.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<afsd(8)>,
L<CellAlias(5)>,
L<fs_listaliases(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007 Jason Edgecombe <jason@rampaginggeek.com>

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0. This
man page was written by Jason Edgecombe for OpenAFS.
