=head1 NAME

fs_newcell - Changes the kernel-resident list of a cell's database servers

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<fs newcell> S<<< B<-name> <I<cell name>> >>> -servers <I<primary servers>>+
    S<<< [B<-linkedcell> <I<linked cell name>>] >>> [B<-help>]

B<fs n> S<<< B<-n> <I<cell name>> >>> S<<< B<-s> <I<primary servers>>+ >>>
    S<<< [B<-l> <I<linked cell name>>] >>> [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fs newcell> command removes the Cache Manager's kernel-resident list
of database server machines for the cell specified by the B<-name>
argument and replaces it with the database server machines named by the
B<-servers> argument.

Each time the machine reboots, the Cache Manager constructs the kernel
list of cells and database server machines by reading the local
F</usr/vice/etc/CellServDB> file. This command does not change the
F<CellServDB> file, so any changes made with it persist only until the
next reboot, unless the issuer also edits the file. The output of the B<fs
listcells> command reflects changes made with this command, because that
command consults the kernel-resident list rather than the F<CellServDB>
file.

This command can introduce a completely new cell into the kernel-resident
list, but cannot make a cell inaccessible (it is not possible to remove a
cell's entry from the kernel-resident list by providing no values for the
B<-server> argument). To make a cell inaccessible, remove its entry from
the F<CellServDB> file and reboot the machine.

The B<-linkedcell> argument specifies the name of the AFS cell to link to
another AFS cell for the purpose of retrying volume lookups. When two
cells are linked, a volume lookup in one cell that fails is retried in the
linked cell.

=head1 CAUTIONS

Some commands, such as the B<aklog> or B<klog.krb5> commands, work correctly
only when the information is accurate for a cell in both the F<CellServDB> file
and the kernel-resident list.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-name> <I<cell name>>

Specifies the fully-qualified cell name of the AFS or DCE cell.

=item B<-servers> <I<primary servers>>+

Specifies the fully-qualified hostnames of all AFS database server
machines for the cell named by the B<-name> argument.

=item B<-linkedcell> <I<linked cell name>>

Specifies the name of the AFS cell to link to another AFS cell for the
purpose of retrying volume lookups. When two cells are linked, a volume
lookup in one cell that fails is retried in the linked cell.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 WINDOWS

The B<fs newcell> command on Windows differs from the Unix version in a few ways.

B<fs newcell> with no arguments discards the existing cell information.
The Windows client will reload a cell's information the next time it
needs the server list for a cell.

Secondly, in addition to accepting the Unix options, B<fs newcell> on
Windows accepts the following options:

=over 4

=item B<-dns>

Adds the new cell to the cache manager, and obtains the VLDB server
information from DNS.

=item B<-registry>

Adds the new cell to the cache manager, and also saves the cell
configuration data in the registry for use the next time the service
restarts.

=item B<-vlport> <I<cell VLDB server port>>

Specifies an alternate port number at which the cell's volume location
database servers are listening.

=item B<-fsport> <I<cell fileserver port>>

Specifies an alternate port number at which the cell's file servers are
listening.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example changes the machine's kernel-resident list of
database server machines for the Example Corporation cell to include the
machines C<db1.example.com> and C<db2.example.com>:

   % fs newcell -name example.com -servers db1.example.com db2.example.com

The following example links the AFS cell C<dce.example.com> to the AFS cell
C<example.com>. The AFS client contacts the Volume Location (VL) servers
C<db1.dce.example.com> and C<db2.dce.example.com> for volume location
information.

   % fs newcell -name dce.example.com \
       -servers db1.dce.example.com db2.dce.example.com \
       -linkedcell example.com

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be logged in as the local superuser root.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<CellServDB(5)>,
L<fs_listcells(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
