=head1 NAME

fs_quota - Displays the quota used in the volume containing a directory or file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<fs quota> S<<< [B<-path> <I<dir/file path>>+] >>> [B<-help>]

B<fs q> S<<< [B<-p> <I<dir/file path>>+] >>> [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fs quota> command displays the percent of quota consumed in the
volume that contains each specified directory or file.

To display more detailed information about the volume and the partition it
resides on, use the B<fs examine> and B<fs listquota> commands.

To set volume quota, use the B<fs setquota> or B<fs setvol> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-path> <I<dir/file path>>

Names each file or directory for which to display the quota consumed in
its parent volume. Partial pathnames are interpreted relative to the
current working directory, which is also the default value if this
argument is omitted.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output reports the percent of volume quota used, in the following
format:

   <percent>% of quota used.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command lists the percent quota used of the volume housing
the current working directory:

   % fs quota
   17% of quota used.

The following command lists the percent quota used of both the volume
housing the current working directory's parent directory and the volume
housing the directory F</afs/abc.com/usr/smith>:

   % fs quota -path .. /afs/abc.com/usr/smith
   43% of quota used.
   92% of quota used.

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the C<l> (lookup) permission on the ACL of the root
directory of the volume that houses the file or directory named by the
B<-path> argument, and on the ACL of each directory that precedes it in
the pathname.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_examine(1)>,
L<fs_listquota(1)>,
L<fs_setquota(1)>,
L<fs_setvol(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
