=head1 NAME

fs rmmount - Removes a mount point

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<fs rmmount> S<<< B<-dir> <I<directory>>+ >>> [B<-help>]

B<fs rm> S<<< B<-d> <I<directory>>+ >>> [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The fs rmmount command removes the mount point named by the B<-dir>
argument from the file system. The corresponding volume remains on its
host partition or partitions, but is inaccessible if there are no other
mount points for it.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-dir> <I<directory>>+

Names the mount point to delete from the file system. The last element in
the pathname must be an actual name, not a shorthand notation such as
"dot" (C<.>) or "dot dot" (C<..>).

Specify the read/write path to the directory, to avoid the failure that
results from attempting to delete a mount point from a read-only
volume. By convention, the read/write path is indicated by placing a
period before the cell name at the pathname's second level (for example,
F</afs/.abc.com>). For further discussion of the concept of read/write and
read-only paths through the filespace, see the B<fs mkmount> reference
page.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command removes the mount points F<jones> and F<terry> from
the current working directory (the F</afs/abc.com/usr> directory).

   % fs rmmount jones terry

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the C<d> (delete) permission on the ACL of the
directory that houses each mount point.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_lsmount(1)>,
L<fs_mkmount(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
