=head1 NAME

fs_sysname - Reports or sets the CPU/operating system type

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<fs sysname> S<<< [B<-newsys> <I<new sysname>>]+ >>> [B<-help>]

B<fs sy> S<<< [B<-n> <I<new sysname>>]+ >>> [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fs sysname> command sets or displays the local machine's
CPU/operating system type as recorded in kernel memory. The Cache Manager
substitutes the string for the I<@sys> variable which can occur in AFS
pathnames; the I<OpenAFS Quick Beginnings> and I<OpenAFS Administration
Guide> explain how using I<@sys> can simplify cell configuration. It is
best to use it sparingly, however, because it can make the effect of
changing directories unpredictable.

The command always applies to the local machine only. If issued on an NFS
client machine accessing AFS via the NFS/AFS Translator, the string is set
or reported for the NFS client machine. The Cache Manager on the AFS
client machine serving as the NFS client's NFS/AFS translator machine
stores the value in its kernel memory, and so can provide the NFS client
with the proper version of program binaries when the user issues commands
for which the pathname to the binaries includes I<@sys>. There is a
separate record for each user logged into the NFS client, which implies
that if a user adopts a new identity (UNIX UID) during a login session on
the NFS client -- perhaps by using the UNIX B<su> command -- he or she
must verify that the correct string is set for the new identity also.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-newsys> <I<new sysname>>

Sets the CPU/operating system indicator string for the local machine. This
option may be used multiple times in the same invocation, which sets I<@sys>
to an array of values. When I<@sys> contains an array of values, the first
value that matches a path is used.

If this argument is omitted, the output displays the current setting
instead. AFS uses a standardized set of strings; consult the I<OpenAFS Quick
Beginnings> or I<OpenAFS Release Notes>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

When the B<-newsys> argument is omitted, the output reports the machine's
system type in the following format:

   Current sysname is '<system_type>'

When the B<-newsys> argument is included, the output is the following:

   fs: new sysname list set.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows the output produced on a Sun SPARCStation
running Solaris 5.7:

   % fs sysname
   Current sysname is 'sun4x_57'

The following command defines a machine to be a IBM RS/6000 running AIX
4.2:

   % fs sysname -newsys rs_aix42

The following command defines a machine to be Mac OS X PPC and a
custom type 'foo'. The second command queries the new sysname:

   % fs sysname -newsys ppc_darwin_80 -newsys foo
   fs: new sysname list set.
   % fs sysname
   Current sysname list is 'ppc_darwin_80' 'foo'

If I<@sys> is C<ppc_darwin_80 foo>, then C<cd @sys> will try to change
to the C<ppc_darwin_80> directory. If the C<ppc_darwin_80> directory
doesn't exist, then the C<foo> directory is tried.

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

To display the current setting, no privilege is required. To include the
B<-newsys> argument on an AFS client machine, the issuer must be logged in
as the local superuser C<root>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_exportafs(1)>,
L<sys(1)>

I<OpenAFS Quick Beginnings>
L<http://www.openafs.org/pages/doc/QuickStartUnix/auqbg000.htm>

I<OpenAFS Administration Guide>
L<http://www.openafs.org/pages/doc/AdminGuide/auagd000.htm>

For the list of assigned standard sysname values, see
L<http://grand.central.org/numbers/systypes.html>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
