=head1 NAME

fs_setvol - Set quota and messages for a volume containing a file or directory

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<fs setvol> S<<< [B<-path> <I<dir/file path>>+] >>>
    S<<< [B<-max> <I<disk space quota in 1K units>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-offlinemsg> <I<offline message>>] >>> [B<-help>]

B<fs setv> S<<< [B<-p> <I<dir/file path>>+] >>>
    S<<< [B<-ma> <I<disk space quota in 1K units>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-o> <I<offline message>>] >>> [B<-h>]

B<fs sv> S<<< [B<-p> <I<dir/file path>>+] >>>
    S<<< [B<-ma> <I<disk space quota in 1K units>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-o> <I<offline message>>] >>> [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fs setvol> command sets the quota (maximum possible size) of the
read/write volume that contains each directory or file named by the
B<-path> argument. To associate a message with the volume which then
appears in the output of the B<fs examine> command, include the
B<-offlinemsg> argument.

To display all of the settings made with this command, use the B<fs
examine> command. The B<fs listquota> command reports a fileset's quota,
and the B<fs quota> command the percent of quota used.

To set quota on one volume at a time, use the B<fs setquota> command.

=head1 CAUTIONS

Currently, the maximum size of a volume is 2 terabytes (2^31 bytes)
and the maximum size of a /vicepX partition on a fileserver is also 2
terabytes. The fileserver will not report an error when it has access
to a partition larger than 2 terabytes, but it will probably fail if
the administrator attempts to use more than 2 terabytes of space. In
addition, there are reports of erroneous disk usage numbers when
B<vos partinfo> or other OpenAFS disk reporting tools are used with
partitions larger than 2 terabytes.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-path> <I<dir/file path>>+

Names each file or directory for which to set the host volume's quota and
offline message. Partial pathnames are interpreted relative to the current
working directory, which is also the default value if this argument is
omitted.

Specify the read/write path to the file or directory, to avoid the failure
that results from attempting to change a read-only volume. By convention,
the read/write path is indicated by placing a period before the cell name
at the pathname's second level (for example, F</afs/.abc.com>). For
further discussion of the concept of read/write and read-only paths
through the filespace, see the B<fs mkmount> reference page.

=item B<-max> <I<disk space quota in 1K units>>

Sets the maximum amount of file server disk space the volume can
occupy. Provide a positive integer to indicate the number of one-kilobyte
blocks (C<1024> is one megabyte). A value of C<0> sets an unlimited quota,
but the size of the disk partition that houses the volume places an
absolute limit on the volume's size.

If the B<-path> argument is omitted (so that the command sets the quota of
the volume housing the current working directory), the B<-max> switch must
be provided.

=item B<-offlinemsg>

Associates a message with the volume which then appears in the output of
the B<fs examine> command. Its intended use is to explain why the volume
is currently offline.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command imposes a 6500 kilobyte quota on the volumes mounted
at the home directories F</afs/abc.com/usr/smith> and
F</afs/abc.com/usr/pat>:

   % cd /afs/abc.com/usr
   % fs setvol -path smith pat -max 6500B<>

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must belong to the system:administrators group.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_examine(1)>,
L<fs_listquota(1)>,
L<fs_mkmount(1)>,
L<fs_quota(1)>,
L<fs_setquota(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
