=head1 NAME

fs setcrypt - Enables of disables the encryption of AFS file transfers

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<fs setcrypt> S<<< [B<-crypt>] <I<on/off>> >>>

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fs setcrypt> command sets the status of network traffic encryption
for file traffic in the AFS client. This encryption applies to file
traffic going to and coming from the AFS File Server for users with valid
tokens.  This command does not control the encryption used for
authentication, which uses Kerberos 5 or klog/kaserver. The complement of
this command is B<fs getcrypt>, which shows the status of encryption on
the client.

The default encryption status is enabled.

This is a global setting and applies to all subsequent connections to an
AFS File Server from this Cache Manager. There is no way to enable or
disable encryption for specific connections.

=head1 CAUTIONS

AFS uses an encryption scheme called fcrypt, based on but slightly weaker
than DES, and there is currently no way to specify a different encryption
mechanism. Because fcrypt and DES are obsolete, the user must decide how
much to trust the encryption. Consider using a Virtual Private Network at
the IP level if better encryption is needed.

Encrypting file traffic requires a token. Unauthenticated connections or
connections authorized via IP-based ACLs will not be encrypted even when
encryption is turned on.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-crypt> <I<on/off>>

This is the only option to B<fs setcrypt>. The B<-crypt> option takes
either C<on> or C<off>. C<on> enables encryption. C<off> disables
encryption. Since this is the only option, the C<-crypt> flag may be
omitted.

C<0> and C<1> or C<true> and C<false> are not supported as replacements
for C<on> and C<off>.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

This command produces no output other than error messages.

=head1 EXAMPLES

There are only four ways to invoke B<fs setcrypt>.  Either of:

   % fs setcrypt -crypt on
   % fs setcrypt on

will enable encryption for authenticated connections and:

   % fs setcrypt -crypt off
   % fs setcrypt off

will disable encryption.

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be logged in as the local superuser root.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_getcrypt(1)>

The description of the fcrypt encryption mechanism at
L<http://surfvi.com/~ota/fcrypt-paper.txt>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007 Jason Edgecombe <jason@rampaginggeek.com>

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0. This
man page was written by Jason Edgecombe for OpenAFS.
