=head1 NAME

fs_setverify - Enables or disables data verification for AFS store data operations [Windows only]

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<fs setverify> S<<< [B<-verify>] <I<on/off>> >>> [B<-help>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fs setverify> command sets the status of data verification for
store data operations in the AFS client. When enabled, each store data
operation is followed by a matching fetch data request.  If the data does
not match, the operation is repeated. The complement of this command is
B<fs getverify>, which shows the status of data verification in the client.

The default data verification status is disabled.

This is a global setting and applies to all subsequent connections to an
AFS File Server from this Cache Manager. There is no way to enable or
disable enverifyion for specific connections.

=head1 CAUTIONS

The B<fs setverify> command is only available on Microsoft Windows.  There
is no equivalent for other platforms.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-verify> <I<on/off>>

This is the only option to B<fs setverify>. The B<-verify> option takes
either C<on> or C<off>. C<on> enables data verification. C<off> disables
data verification. Since this is the only option, the C<-verify> flag may be
omitted.

C<0> and C<1> or C<true> and C<false> are not supported as replacements
for C<on> and C<off>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

This command produces no output other than error messages.

=head1 EXAMPLES

There are only four ways to invoke B<fs setverify>.  Either of:

   % fs setverify -verify on
   % fs setverify on

will enable data verification and:

   % fs setverify -verify off
   % fs setverify off

will disable data verification.

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be logged in as the local superuser root.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_getverify(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2012 Jeffrey Altman <jaltman@your-file-system.com>

This documentation is covered by the BSD License as written in the
doc/LICENSE file. This man page was written by Jeffrey Altman for
OpenAFS.
