=head1 NAME

fs setcachesize - Sets the size of the disk cache

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<fs setcachesize> [-blocks <I<size in 1K byte blocks (0 => reset)>>]  
[B<-reset>]  [B<-help>]

B<fs setca>  [B<-b> <I<size in 1K byte blocks (0 => reset)>>]  [B<-r>]  [-h]

B<fs cachesize> [B<-b> <I<size in 1K byte blocks (0 => reset)>>]  [B<-r>]  [-h]

B<fs ca> [B<-b> <I<size in 1K byte blocks (0 => reset)>>]  [B<-r>]  [-h]  

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The fs setcachesize command changes the number of kilobyte
blocks of local disk space available to the Cache Manager for its data cache,
on machines that use a disk cache. The command is not operative on
machines that use a memory cache.

To return the cache size to the default value specified in the third field
of the local B</usr/vice/etc/cacheinfo> file, provide a value of
B<0> to the B<-blocks> argument.

To return the cache size to the value set when the machine was last
rebooted, use the B<-reset> flag instead of the B<-blocks>
argument. This is normally the amount specified in the
B<cacheinfo> file, unless the B<-blocks> argument was included
on the B<afsd> command to override the B<cacheinfo>
value.

To display the current cache size and amount of cache in use, for both disk
and memory caches, use the B<fs getcacheparms> command.

=head1 CAVEATS

This command is not operative on machines using a memory cache, and results
in an error message. To change memory cache size, edit the
B<cacheinfo> file and reboot, or reboot and provide the
B<-blocks> argument to the B<afsd> command.

On machines using a disk cache, do not set the cache size to exceed 85% to
90% of the actual disk space available for the cache directory. The
cache implementation itself requires a small amount of space on the
partition.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -blocks

Specifies the number of one-kilobyte blocks of disk space available for
the Cache Manager to devote to the cache. Provide a value of
B<0> to set cache size to the default specified in the
B<cacheinfo> file.

=item -reset

Returns the cache size to the value set when the machine was last
booted. This agrees with the value in the B<cacheinfo> file
unless the B<-blocks> argument was used on the B<afsd>
command.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command sets the disk cache size to 25000 kilobyte
blocks.

   % fs setcachesize -blocks 25000

Both of the following commands reset the disk cache size to the value in
the B<cacheinfo> file, assuming that the B<-blocks> argument
to the B<afsd> command was not used.

   % fs setcachesize -blocks 0

   % fs setcachesize -reset
   

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be logged in as the local superuser root.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<cacheinfo(1)>,
L<afsd(1)>,
L<fs_getcacheparms(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
