=head1 NAME

fs setserverprefs - Sets the Cache Manager's preference ranks for file server or VL Server
machines

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<fs setserverprefs> [-servers <I<fileserver names and ranks>>+]
[B<-vlservers> <I<VL server names and ranks>>+]
                  [B<-file> <I<input from named file>>]  [B<-stdin>]  [-help]

B<fs sets> [B<-se> <I<fileserver names and ranks>>+]  [-vl <I<VL server names and ranks>>+]
[B<-f> <I<input from named file>>]  [B<-st>]  [B<-h>]
   
B<fs sp> [B<-se> <I<fileserver names and ranks>>+]  [-vl <I<VL server names and ranks>>+]  
[B<-f> <I<input from named file>>]  [B<-st>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The fs setserverprefs command sets the local Cache
Manager's preference ranks for one or more file server machine interfaces
or, if the B<-vlserver> argument is provided, for Volume Location (VL)
Server machines. For file server machines, the numerical ranks
determine the order in which the Cache Manager attempts to contact the
interfaces of machines that are housing a volume. For VL Server
machines, the ranks determine the order in which the Cache Manager attempts to
contact a cell's VL Servers when requesting VLDB information.

The fs getserverprefs reference page explains how the Cache
Manager uses preference ranks when contacting file server machines or VL
Server machines. The following paragraphs explain how the Cache Manager
calculates default ranks, and how to use this command to change the
defaults.

Calculation of Default Preference Ranks

The Cache Manager stores a preference rank in kernel memory as a paired IP
address and numerical rank. If a file server machine is multihomed, the
Cache Manager assigns a distinct rank to each of the machine's addresses
(up to the number of addresses that the VLDB can store per machine, which is
specified in the I<IBM AFS Release Notes>). Once calculated, a
rank persists until the machine reboots, or until this command is used to
change it.

The Cache Manager sets default VL Server preference ranks as it
initializes, randomly assigning a rank from the range 10,000 to 10,126 to each
of the machines listed in the local B</usr/vice/etc/CellServDB>
file. Machines from different cells can have the same rank, but this
does not present a problem because the Cache Manager consults only one
cell's ranks at a time.

The Cache Manager sets default preference ranks for file server machine as
it fetches volume location information from the VLDB. Each time it
learns about file server machine interfaces for which it has not already set
ranks, it assigns a rank to each interface. If the local client machine
has only one IP address, the Cache Manager compares it to the server
interface's IP address and sets a rank according to the following
algorithm. If the client machine is multihomed, the Cache Manager
applies the algorithm to each of the client machine's addresses and
assigns to the file server machine interface the lowest rank that
results.

=over 4

=item *

If the local machine is a file server machine, the base rank for each of
its interfaces is 5,000.


=item *

If the file server machine interface is on the same subnetwork as the
client interface, its base rank is 20,000.


=item *

If the file server machine interface is on the same network as the client
interface, or is at the distant end of a point-to-point link with the client
interface, its base rank is 30,000.


=item *

If the file server machine interface is on a different network than the
client interface, or the Cache Manager cannot obtain network information about
it, its base rank is 40,000.


=back

After assigning a base rank to a file server machine interface, the Cache
Manager adds to it a number randomly chosen from the range 0 (zero) to
14. As an example, a file server machine interface in the same
subnetwork as the local machine receives a base rank of 20,000, but the Cache
Manager records the actual rank as an integer between 20,000 and
20,014. This process reduces the number of interfaces that have exactly
the same rank. As with VL Server machine ranks, it is possible for file
server machine interfaces from foreign cells to have the same rank as
interfaces in the local cell, but this does not present a problem. Only
the relative ranks of the interfaces that house a given volume are relevant,
and AFS only supports storage of a volume in one cell at a time.

Setting Non-default Preference Ranks

Use the fs setserverprefs command to reset an existing
preference rank, or to set the initial rank of a file server machine interface
or VL Server machine for which the Cache Manager has no rank. To make a
rank persist across a reboot of the local machine, place the appropriate
B<fs setserverprefs> command in the machine's AFS initialization
file.

Specify each preference rank as a pair of values separated by one or more
spaces:

=over 4

=item *

The first member of the pair is the fully-qualified hostname (for example,
B<fs1.abc.com>), or the IP address in dotted decimal
format, of a file server machine interface or VL Server machine


=item *

The second member of the pair is an integer. The possible ranks
range from B<1> through B<65535>.


=back

As with default ranks, the Cache Manager adds a randomly chosen integer to
a rank specified by this command. For file server machine interfaces,
the integer is from the range 0 (zero) to 14; for VL Server machines, it
is from the range 0 (zero) to 126. For example, if the administrator
assigns a rank of 15,000 to a file server machine interface, the Cache Manager
stores an integer between 15,000 to 15,014.

There are several ways to provide ranks for file server machine interfaces
(but not for VL Server machines):

=over 4

=item *

On the command line, following the -servers argument.


=item *

In a file named by the -file argument. Place each pair
on its own line in the file. Directing the output from the B<fs
getserverprefs> command to a file automatically generates a file with the
proper format.


=item *

Via the standard input stream, by providing the -stdin
flag. This method enables the issuer to feed in values directly from a
program or script that generates preference ranks by using an algorithm
appropriate to the local cell. The AFS distribution does not include
such programs or scripts.


=back

When setting file server machine preference ranks, it is legal to combine
the B<-servers>, B<-file>, and B<-stdin> options on a
single command line. If different options specify a different rank for
the same interface, the Cache Manager stores and uses the rank assigned with
the B<-servers> argument.

The -vlservers argument is the only way to assign VL Server
machine ranks. It can be combined with one or more of the
B<-servers>, B<-file>, and B<-stdin> options, but the
Cache Manager applies the values provided for those options to file server
machine ranks only.

The fs command interpreter does not verify hostnames or IP
addresses, and so assigns preference ranks to invalid machine names or
addresses. The Cache Manager never uses such ranks unless the same
incorrect information is in the VLDB.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -servers

Specifies one or more file server machine preference ranks. Each
rank pairs the fully-qualified hostname or IP address (in dotted decimal
format) of a file server machine's interface with an integer rank,
separated by one or more spaces; also separate each pair with one or more
spaces. Acceptable values for the rank range from B<1> through
B<65521>; a lower value indicates a greater preference.
Providing ranks outside this range can have unpredictable results.
Providing a value no larger than B<65521> guarantees that the rank
does not exceed the maximum possible value of 65,535 even if the largest
random factor (14) is added. 

This argument can be combined with the -file argument,
B<-stdin> flag, or both. If more than one of the arguments sets
a rank for the same interface, the rank set by this argument takes
precedence. It can also be combined with the B<-vlservers>
argument, but does not interact with it.

=item -vlservers

Specifies one or more VL Server preference ranks. Each rank pairs
the fully-qualified hostname or IP address (in dotted decimal format) of a VL
Server machine with an integer rank, separated by one or more spaces;
also separate each pair with one or more spaces. Acceptable values for
the rank range from B<1> through B<65521>; a lower value
indicates a greater preference. Providing ranks outside this range can
have unpredictable results. Providing a value no larger than
B<65521> guarantees that the rank does not exceed the maximum possible
value of 65,535 even if the largest random factor (14) is added. 

This argument can be combined with the -servers argument,
B<-file> argument, B<-stdin> flag, or any combination of the
three, but does not interact with any of them. They apply only to file
server machine ranks.

=item -file

Specifies the full pathname of a file from which to read pairs of file
server machine interfaces and their ranks, using the same notation and range
of values as for the B<-servers> argument. In the file, place
each pair on its own line and separate the two parts of each pair with one or
more spaces.

This argument can be combined with the -servers argument,
B<-stdin> flag, or both. If more than one of the arguments sets
a rank for the same interface, the rank set by the B<-server> argument
takes precedence. It can also be combined with the
B<-vlservers> argument, but does not interact with it.

=item -stdin

Reads pairs of file server machine interface and integer rank from the
standard input stream. The intended use is to accept input piped in
from a user-defined program or script that generates ranks in the appropriate
format, but it also accepts input typed to the shell. Format the
interface and rank pairs as for the B<-file> argument. If
typing at the shell, type B<<Ctrl-d>> after the final newline to
complete the input.

This argument can be combined with the -servers argument, the
B<-file> argument, or both. If more than one of the arguments
sets a rank for the same interface, the rank set by the B<-server>
argument takes precedence. It can also be combined with the
B<-vlservers> argument, but does not interact with it.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command sets the Cache Manager's preference ranks for
the file server machines named B<fs3.abc.com> and
B<fs4.abc.com>, the latter of which is specified by its
IP address, 192.12.105.100. The machines reside in
another subnetwork of the local machine's network, so their default base
rank is 30,000. To increase the Cache Manager's preference for
these machines, the issuer assigns a rank of B<25000>, to which the
Cache Manager adds an integer in the range from 0 to 15.

   # fs setserverprefs -servers fs3.abc.com 25000 192.12.105.100 25000

The following command uses the -servers argument to set the
Cache Manager's preference ranks for the same two file server machines,
but it also uses the B<-file> argument to read a collection of
preference ranks from a file that resides in the local file
B</etc/fs.prefs>:

   # fs setserverprefs -servers fs3.abc.com 25000 192.12.105.100 25000  \ 
                       -file /etc/fs.prefs

The /etc/fs.prefs file has the following contents and
format:

   192.12.108.214        7500
   192.12.108.212        7500
   138.255.33.41         39000
   138.255.33.34         39000
   128.0.45.36           41000
   128.0.45.37           41000

The following command uses the -stdin flag to read preference
ranks from the standard input stream. The ranks are piped to the
command from a program, B<calc_prefs>, which was written by the issuer
to calculate preferences based on values significant to the local cell.

   # calc_prefs | fs setserverprefs -stdin

The following command uses the -vlservers argument to set the
Cache Manager's preferences for the VL server machines named
B<fs1.abc.com>, B<fs3.abc.com>,
and B<fs4.abc.com> to base ranks of 1, 11000, and 65521,
respectively:

   # fs setserverprefs -vlservers fs1.abc.com 1 fs3.abc.com 11000  \
                       fs4.abc.com 65521

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be logged in as the local superuser root.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_getserverprefs(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
