=head1 NAME

fs setquota - Sets the quota for the volume containing a file or directory

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<fs setquota> [B<-path> <I<dir/file path>>]
    B<-max> <I<max quota in kbytes>> [B<-help>]

B<fs setq> [B<-p> <I<dir/file path>>] B<-m> <I<max quota in kbytes>> [B<-h>]

B<fs sq> [B<-p> <I<dir/file path>>] B<-m> <I<max quota in kbytes>> [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fs setquota> command sets the quota (maximum possible size) of the
read/write volume that contains the directory or file named by the
B<-path> argument.

To set the quota on multiple volumes at the same time, use the B<fs
setvol> command.

To display a volume's quota, use the B<fs examine>, B<fs listquota>, or
B<fs quota> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-path> <I<dir/file path>>

Names the directory or file for which to set the host volume's
quota. Partial pathnames are interpreted relative to the current working
directory, which is also the default value if this argument is omitted.

Specify the read/write path to the file or directory, to avoid the failure
that results from attempting to change a read-only volume. By convention,
the read/write path is indicated by placing a period before the cell name
at the pathname's second level (for example, F</afs/.abc.com>). For
further discussion of the concept of read/write and read-only paths
through the filespace, see the B<fs mkmount> reference page.

=item B<-max> <I<max quota in kbytes>>

Sets the maximum amount of file server disk space the volume can
occupy. Specify the number of one-kilobyte blocks as a positive integer
(C<1024> is one megabyte). A value of C<0> sets an unlimited quota, but
the size of the disk partition that houses the volume places an absolute
limit on the volume's size.

If the B<-path> argument is omitted (to set the quota of the volume
housing the current working directory), the B<-max> switch must be
included with this argument.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command imposes a maximum quota of 3000 kilobytes on the
volume that houses the F</afs/abc.com/usr/smith> directory:

   % fs setquota -path /afs/abc.com/usr/smith -max 3000

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must belong to the system:administrators group.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_examine(1)>,
L<fs_listquota(1)>,
L<fs_quota(1)>,
L<fs_mkmount(1)>,
L<fs_setvol(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
