=head1 NAME

fs_trace - Enable or disable AFS Cache Manager tracing 

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<fs trace> S<<< [B<-on>|B<-off>] >>> [B<-reset>] [B<-dump>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This command enables or disables AFS Cache Manager tracing, resets the
trace log, or dumps the log.  When you dump the log, two files are created
in the Windows Temporary directory:  F<afs-buffer.log> and F<afsd.log>.
Any existing files with those names will be replaced.

=head1 CAUTIONS

This command is only available on Windows.

=head1 OPTIONS

Any combination of the following options may be specified, except that
both B<-on> and B<-off> cannot be specified at the same time.

=over 4

=item B<-on>

Turn tracing on.

=item B<-off>

Turn tracing off.

=item B<-reset>

Resets the tracing information, discarding any trace-information collected
up to this time.

=item B<-dump>

Creates a dump file containing the trace information.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

If successful, the output of this command (for any option) will be:

   AFS tracing enabled

If unsuccessful:

   AFS tracing disabled

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command starts tracing:

   % fs trace -on

The following dumps the current contents and resets the trace log, then
turns tracing off:

   % fs trace -dump -reset -off

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be have AFS Client Administrator access to issue this
command.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2008. This documentation is covered by the BSD License as
written in the doc/LICENSE file. This man page was written by Mike
Robinson (L<mike@endpoint.com>) for OpenAFS.
