=head1 NAME

fs uuid - Prints the uuid of the client or generates a new one

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<fs uuid> [B<-generate>] [B<-help>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<fs uuid> prints the current uuid of an OpenAFS client. It can
optionally force the generation of a new uuid, if needed. The client
uuid is used by the B<fileserver> to differentiate clients with the
same IP address.

=head1 CAUTIONS

The B<fs uuid> command is only available in OpenAFS versions after
1.4.5 and 1.5.8. The behavior differs slightly between versions. In
OpenAFS 1.4.5 and later, the B<-generate> option is required and the
uuid for the client machine is never printed. OpenAFS versions 1.5.8
and later will print the uuid.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-generate>

Generates a new uuid for the cache manager. This is useful if two
clients share the same uuid. B<-generate> is optional in OpenAFS
versions 1.5.8 and later, but it is required in OpenAFS versions 1.4.5
and later.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

B<fs uuid> prints out the current uuid for the client or the new uuid
if the B<-generate> option is passed to it.

=head1 EXAMPLES

There are only two ways to invoke B<fs uuid> under 1.5.8 and later:

   % fs uuid
   UUID: 8ac66f9308a8e-47d7-80f7-50d0040cddc2

   % fs uuid -generate
   New UUID: 436bd660-1720-429508e470cff38f5c6fb0

Here is the only way to invoke B<fs uuid> under OpenAFS 1.4.5 and later:

   % fs uuid -generate
   New uuid generated.


=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be logged on as the local superuser C<root>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007 Jason Edgecombe <jason@rampaginggeek.com>

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0. This
man page was written by Jason Edgecombe for OpenAFS.
