=head1 NAME

package help - Displays the syntax of specified package commands or lists
functional descriptions of all B<package> commands

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<package help> [B<-topic> <I<help string>>+]  [-help]

B<package h> [B<-t> <I<help string>>+]  [-h]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The package help command displays the complete online help entry
(short description and syntax statement) for each command operation code
specified by the B<-topic> argument. If the B<-topic>
argument is omitted, the output includes the first line (name and short
description) of the online help entry for every B<package>
command.

To list every package command whose name or short description
includes a specified keyword, use the B<package apropos>
command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -topic

Indicates each command for which to display the complete online help
entry. Omit the B<package> part of the command name, providing
only the operation code (for example, specify B<initcmd>, not
B<package initcmd>). If this argument is omitted, the output
briefly describes every B<package> command.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The online help entry for each package command consists of the
following two or three lines:

=over 4

=item *

The first line names the command and briefly describes its
function.


=item *

The second line lists aliases for the command, if any.


=item *

The final line, which begins with the string C<Usage>, lists the
command's options in the prescribed order. Online help entries use
the same symbols (for example, brackets) as the reference pages in this
document.


=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command displays the online help entry for the package
initcmd command:

   % package help initcmd
   package initcmd: initialize the program
   Usage: package [initcmd] [-config <base name of configuration file>]  
   [-fullconfig <full name of configuration file, or stdin for standard input>] 
   [-overwrite] [-noaction] [-verbose] [-silent] [-rebootfiles] 
   [-debug] [-help]

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<package(1)>,
L<package_apropos(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
