=head1 NAME

pts creategroup - Creates an (empty) Protection Database group entry

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<pts creategroup -name> <I<group name>>+  [-owner <I<owner of the group>>] 
[B<-id> <I<id (negated) for the group>>+]  [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]  
                [B<-noauth>]  [B<-force>]  [-help]

B<pts createg -na> <I<group name>>+  [-o <I<owner of the group>>] 
[B<-i> <I<id (negated) for the group>>+]  [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  
            [B<-no>]  [B<-f>]  [-h]
      
B<pts cg -na> <I<group name>>+  [-o <I<owner of the group>>]  
[B<-i> <I<id (negated) for the group>>+]  
       [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-no>]  [B<-f>]  [-h]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The pts creategroup command creates an entry in the Protection
Database for each group specified by the B<-name> argument. The
entry records the issuer of the command as the group's creator, and as
the group's owner unless the B<-owner> argument names an
alternate user or group as the owner.

There are two types of groups:

=over 4

=item *

I<regular>, the names of which have two parts separated by a
colon. The part before the colon names the group's owner.
Any user can create such groups.


=item *

I<prefix-less>, which do not have an owner prefix. Only
members of the B<system:administrators> group can create
prefix-less groups.


=back

Creating a group lowers the issuer's group-creation quota by
one. This is true even if the B<-owner> argument is used to
assign ownership to an alternate user or group. To display a
user's group-creation quota, use the B<pts examine> command;
to set it, use the B<pts setfields> command.

AFS group ID (AFS GID) numbers are negative integers and by default the
Protection Server assigns a GID that is one less (more negative) than the
current value of the C<max group id> counter in the Protection
Database, decrementing the counter by one for each group. Members of
the B<system:administrators> group can use the B<-id>
argument to assign specific AFS GID numbers. If any of the specified
GIDs is lower (more negative) than the current value of the C<max group
id> counter, the counter is reset to that value. It is acceptable
to specify a GID greater (less negative) than the current value of the
counter, but the creation operation fails if an existing group already has
it. To display or set the value of the C<max group id> counter,
use the B<pts listmax> or B<pts setmax> command,
respectively.

=head1 OUTPUT

The command generates the following string to confirm creation of each
group:

   group I<name> has id I<AFS GID>

=head1 CAVEATS

Although using the -owner argument to designate a machine entry
as a group's owner does not generate an error, it is not
recommended. The Protection Server does not extend the usual privileges
of group ownership to users logged onto the machine.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -name

Specifies the name of each group to create. Provide a string of up
to 63 characters, which can include lowercase (but not uppercase) letters,
numbers, and punctuation marks. A regular name includes a single colon
(B<:>) to separate the two parts of the name; the colon
cannot appear in a prefix-less group name.

A regular group's name must have the following format:

   I<owner_name>:I<group_name>

and the I<owner_name> field must reflect the actual owner of the
group, as follows: 

=over 4

=item *

If the optional -owner argument is not included, the field must
match the AFS username under which the issuer is currently
authenticated.


=item *

If the -owner argument names an alternate AFS user, the field
must match that AFS username.


=item *

If the -owner argument names another regular group, the field
must match the owning group's owner field (the part of its name before
the colon). If the B<-owner> argument names a prefix-less
group, the field must match the owning group's complete name.


=back

=item -owner

Specifies a user or group as the owner for each group, rather than the
issuer of the command. Provide either an AFS username or the name of a
regular or prefix-less group. An owning group must already have at
least one member. This requirement prevents assignment of
self-ownership to a group during its creation; use the B<pts
chown> command after issuing this command, if desired.

=item -id

Specifies a negative integer AFS GID number for each group, rather than
allowing the Protection Server to assign it. Precede the integer with a
hyphen (B<->) to indicate that it is negative.

If this argument is used and the -name argument names multiple
new groups, it is best to provide an equivalent number of AFS GIDs. The
first GID is assigned to the first group, the second to the second group, and
so on. If there are fewer GIDs than groups, the Protection Server
assigns GIDs to the unmatched groups based on the C<max group id>
counter. If there are more GIDs than groups, the excess GIDs are
ignored. If any of the GIDs is lower (more negative) than the current
value of the C<max group id> counter, the counter is reset to that
value.

=item -cell

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
the introductory B<pts> reference page.

=item -noauth

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the
issuer. For more details, see the introductory B<pts> reference
page.

=item -force

Enables the command to continue executing as far as possible when errors
or other problems occur, rather than halting execution at the first
error.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

In the following example, the user pat creates groups called
B<pat:friends> and B<pat:colleagues>.

   % pts creategroup -name pat:friends pat:colleagues

The following example shows a member of the
B<system:administrators> group creating the prefix-less group
B<staff> and assigning its ownership to the
B<system:administrators> group rather than to herself.

   % pts creategroup -name staff -owner system:administrators

In the following example, the user pat creates a group called
B<smith:team-members>, which is allowed because the
B<-owner> argument specifies the required value
(B<smith>). 

   % pts creategroup -name smith:team-members -owner smith

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must belong to the system:administrators group
to create prefix-less groups or include the B<-id> argument.

To create a regular group, the issuer must

=over 4

=item *

Be authenticated. The command fails if the -noauth flag
is provided.


=item *

Have a group-creation quota greater than zero. The pts
examine command displays this quota.


=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<pts(1)>,
L<pts_examine(1)>,
L<pts_listmax(1)>,
L<pts_setfields(1)>,
L<pts_setmax(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
