=head1 NAME

pts removeuser - Removes a user from a Protection Database group

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<pts removeuser> B<-user> <I<user name>>+ B<-group> <I<group name>>+
    [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] [B<-noauth>] [B<-force>] [B<-help>]

B<pts rem> B<-u> <I<user name>>+ B<-g> <I<group name>>+
    [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] [B<-n>] [B<-f>] [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<pts removeuser> command removes each user or machine named by the
B<-user> argument from each group named by the B<-group> argument.

To add users to a group, use the B<pts adduser> command. To list group
membership, use the B<pts membership> command. To remove users from a
group and delete the group's entry completely in a single step, use the
B<pts delete> command.

=head1 CAUTIONS

AFS compiles each user's group membership as he or she authenticates. Any
users who have valid tokens when they are removed from a group retain the
privileges extended to that group's members until they discard their
tokens or reauthenticate.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-name> <I<user name>>+

Specifies the name of each user entry or the IP address (complete or
wildcard-style) of each machine entry to remove.

=item B<-group> <I<group name>>+

Names each group from which to remove members.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
L<pts(1)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. For more
details, see L<pts(1)>.

=item B<-force>

Enables the command to continue executing as far as possible when errors
or other problems occur, rather than halting execution at the first error.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example removes user smith from the groups C<staff> and
C<staff:finance>. Note that no switch names are necessary because only a
single instance is provided for the first argument (the username).

   % pts removeuser smith staff staff:finance

The following example removes three machine entries, which represent all
machines in the ABC Corporation network, from the group C<bin-prot>:

   % pts removeuser -user 138.255.0.0 192.12.105.0 192.12.106.0 -group bin-prot

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The required privilege depends on the setting of the fifth privacy flag in
the Protection Database for the group named by the B<-group> argument (use
the B<pts examine> command to display the flags):

=over 4

=item *

If it is the hyphen, only the group's owner and members of the
system:administrators group can remove members.

=item *

If it is lowercase C<r>, members of the group can also remove other
members.

=back

(It is not possible to set the fifth flag to uppercase C<R>.)

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<pts(1)>,
L<pts_adduser(1)>,
L<pts_examine(1)>,
L<pts_membership(1)>,
L<pts_setfields(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
