=head1 NAME

pts_sleep - Pauses for a few seconds

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<pts sleep> S<<< [B<-delay>] <I<# of seconds>> >>>
   S<<< [B<-cell>] <I<cell name>> >>> [B<-noauth>] [B<-force>]

B<pts sl> S<<< [B<-d>] <I<# of seconds>> >>> S<<< [B<-c>] <I<cell name>> >>>
   [B<-n>] [B<-f>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<pts sleep> pauses for a specified number of seconds. The command can
be run from the command line or interactively, although from the command
line it's essentially equivalent to the B<sleep> command. It is intended
for use in interactive mode to pause for a few seconds between batch
commands to allow the Protection Server to catch up.

=head1 CAUTIONS

Prior to OpenAFS 1.4.5 and OpenAFS 1.5.23, the B<pts sleep> command was
only available on Unix or Linux and when OpenAFS was compiled with the
supergroups option (disabled by default).  As of OpenAFS 1.4.5 and 1.5.23,
it is always available.

=head1 OPTIONS

Although they have no effect, B<pts quit> takes the following standard
B<pts> options:

=over 4

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
L<pts(1)>.

=item B<-force>

Enables the command to continue executing as far as possible when errors
or other problems occur, rather than halting execution at the first error.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. For more
details, see L<pts(1)>.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

This command produces no output.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Here is an example of a B<pts interactive> session:

   % pts interactive
   pts> sleep 5
   pts> quit
   %

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<pts(1)>,
L<pts_interactive(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007 Jason Edgecombe <jason@rampaginggeek.com>

This documentation is covered by the BSD License as written in the
doc/LICENSE file. This man page was written by Jason Edgecombe for
OpenAFS.
