=head1 NAME

pts_quit - Exit from pts interactive mode

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<pts quit> S<<< [B<-cell>] <I<cell name>> >>> [B<-noauth>] [B<-localauth>] 
    [B<-force>]

B<pts q> S<<< [B<-c>] <I<cell name>> >>> [B<-n>] [B<-l>] [B<-f>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<pts quit> command exits from B<pts interactive> mode.  The command
can be run from the command line or interactively, but on the command line
it does nothing and is therefore of questionable utility.

=head1 CAUTIONS

Prior to OpenAFS 1.4.5 and OpenAFS 1.5.23, the B<pts quit> command was
only available on Unix or Linux and when OpenAFS was compiled with the
supergroups option (disabled by default).  As of OpenAFS 1.4.5 and 1.5.23,
it is always available.

=head1 OPTIONS

Although they have no effect, B<pts quit> takes the following standard
B<pts> options:

=over 4

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
L<pts(1)>.

=item B<-force>

Enables the command to continue executing as far as possible when errors
or other problems occur, rather than halting execution at the first error.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. Do not combine this flag with the 
B<-cell> or B<-noauth> options. For more details, see L<pts(1)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. For more
details, see L<pts(1)>.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

This command produces no output.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Here is an example of a B<pts interactive> session:

   % pts interactive
   pts> quit
   %

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<pts(1)>,
L<pts_interactive(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007 Jason Edgecombe <jason@rampaginggeek.com>

This documentation is covered by the BSD License as written in the
doc/LICENSE file. This man page was written by Jason Edgecombe for
OpenAFS.
