=head1 NAME

pts_listentries - Displays all users or groups in the Protection Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<pts listentries> [B<-users>] [B<-groups>] S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>>
    [B<-noauth>] [B<-localauth>] [B<-force>] [B<-help>]

B<pts liste> [B<-u>] [B<-g>] S<<< [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-n>] [B<-l>] 
             [B<-f>] [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<pts listentries> command displays the name and AFS ID of all
Protection Database entries of the indicated type. It also displays the
AFS ID of each entry's owner and creator.

To display all user and machine entries, either include the B<-users> flag
or omit both it and the B<-groups> flag.  To display all group entries,
include the B<-groups> flag. To display all entries, provide both flags.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-users>

Displays user and machine entries.

=item B<-groups>

Displays group entries.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
L<pts(1)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. For more
details, see L<pts(1)>.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. Do not combine this flag with the 
B<-cell> or B<-noauth> options. For more details, see L<pts(1)>.

=item B<-force>

Enables the command to continue executing as far as possible when errors
or other problems occur, rather than halting execution at the first error.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output includes a line for each entry, with information in four
columns that have the following headers:

=over 4

=item Name

The entry's name.

=item ID

The entry's AFS ID (AFS UID for a user or machine, negative AFS GID for a
group).

=item Owner

The AFS ID of the user or group that owns the entry.

=item Creator

The AFS ID of the user who created the entry (the system:administrators
group is listed as the creator of the entry for C<anonymous> and the
system groups, but it is not otherwise possible for a group to create
groups).

=back

In general, the entries appear in the order in which they were created.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example displays both user and group entries.

   % pts listentries -users -groups
   Name                          ID  Owner Creator
   system:administrators       -204   -204    -204
   system:anyuser              -101   -204    -204
   system:authuser             -102   -204    -204
   anonymous                  32766   -204    -204
   admin                          1   -204   32766
   pat                          100   -204       1
   smith                        101   -204       1
   pat:friends                 -206    100     100
   staff                       -207   -204       1

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must belong to the system:administrators group.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<pts(1)>,
L<pts_creategroup(1)>,
L<pts_createuser(1)>,
L<pts_examine(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
