=head1 NAME

pts interactive - Enters interactive mode

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<pts interactive> S<<< [B<-cell>] <I<cell name>> >>> [B<-noauth>]
    [B<-force>]

B<pts in> S<<< [B<-c>] <I<cell name>> >>> [B<-n>] [B<-f>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<pts interactive> command allows the user to enter an interactive
mode, useful for running bulk commands like creating new users or groups.

=head1 CAUTIONS

Prior to OpenAFS 1.4.5 and OpenAFS 1.5.23, the B<pts interactive> command
was only available on Unix or Linux and when OpenAFS was compiled with the
supergroups option (disabled by default).  As of OpenAFS 1.4.5 and 1.5.23,
it is always available.

Running bulk B<pts> commands may degrade the performance of the Protection
Server while they are run and server resources may not be released
immediately after commands are run. The B<pts sleep> command can be used
in interactive mode or with B<pts source> to give the Protection Server a
change to catch up.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<pts interactive> only takes the standard B<pts> options.

=over 4

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
L<pts(1)>.

=item B<-force>

Enables the command to continue executing as far as possible when errors
or other problems occur, rather than halting execution at the first error.
This is useful for bulk operations where you would like to continue even
if one of many operations fails.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. For more
details, see L<pts(1)>.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output is the same as if each individual command were run from the
command line.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Here is an example of a B<pts interactive> session:

   % pts interactive
   pts> examine admin
   Name: admin, id: 1, owner: system:administrators, creator: anonymous,
     membership: 2, flags: S----, group quota: 20.
   pts> help
   pts: Commands are:
   adduser         add a user to a group
   apropos         search by help text
   chown           change ownership of a group
   creategroup     create a new group
   createuser      create a new user
   delete          delete a user or group from database
   examine         examine an entry
   help            get help on commands
   interactive     enter interactive mode
   listentries     list users/groups in the protection database
   listmax         list max id
   listowned       list groups owned by an entry or zero id gets orphaned groups
   membership      list membership of a user or group
   quit            exit program
   removeuser      remove a user from a group
   rename          rename user or group
   setfields       set fields for an entry
   setmax          set max id
   sleep           pause for a bit
   source          read commands from file
   pts> quit
   %

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The same privilege is required to run the command in interactive mode as
is required to run the command by itself on the command line. Some
commands such as B<pts createuser> require that the user belong to the
system:administrators group, while others do not.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<pts(1)>,
L<pts_quit(1)>,
L<pts_sleep(1)>,
L<pts_source(1)>,
L<ptserver(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007 Jason Edgecombe <jason@rampaginggeek.com>

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0. This
man page was written by Jason Edgecombe for OpenAFS.
