=head1 NAME

pts_setmax - Sets the value of the max group id or max user id counter

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<pts setmax> S<<< [B<-group> <I<group max>>] >>> S<<< [B<-user> <I<user max>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-noauth>] [B<-force>] [B<-help>]

B<pts setm> [B<-g> I<group max>>] S<<< [B<-u> <I<user max>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-n>] [B<-f>] [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<pts setmax> command sets the value of one or both counters that
track the IDs the Protection Server allocates to new users, machines, or
groups: the C<max user id> counter for the AFS user IDs (AFS UIDs)
assigned to users and machines, and the C<max group id> counter for the
AFS group IDs (AFS GIDs) assigned to groups.

Use the B<pts listmax> command to display the current value of both
counters.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-group> <I<group max>>

Sets the C<max group id> counter. Precede the value with a hyphen to
indicate that it is negative. When an administrator next uses the B<pts
creategroup> command to create a group entry and does not include that
command's B<-id> argument, the Protection Server assigns the group an AFS
GID one less (more negative) than this value.

=item B<-user> <I<user max>>

Sets the C<max user id> counter. When an administrator next uses the B<pts
createuser> command to create a user or machine entry and does not include
that command's B<-id> argument, the Protection Server assigns the group an
AFS UID one greater than this value.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
L<pts(1)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. For more
details, see L<pts(1)>.

=item B<-force>

Enables the command to continue executing as far as possible when errors
or other problems occur, rather than halting execution at the first error.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command sets the C<max group id> counter to -500 and the
C<max user id> counter to 1000.

   % pts setmax -group -500 -user 1000

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must belong to the system:administrators group.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<pts(1)>,
L<pts_creategroup(1)>,
L<pts_createuser(1)>,
L<pts_listmax(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
