=head1 NAME

pts_delete - Deletes a Protection Database entry

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<pts delete> S<<< B<-nameorid> <I<user or group name or id>>+ >>>
    S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-noauth>] [B<-force>] [B<-help>]

B<pts d> S<<< B<-na> <I<user or group name or id>>+ >>>
    S<<< [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-no>] [B<-f>] [-h]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<pts delete> command removes each entry specified by the B<-nameorid>
argument from the Protection Database. Deleting entries affects other
parts of the system in various ways:

=over 4

=item *

Deleted users and groups still appear on access control lists (ACLs), but
are listed by AFS UID or GID rather than by name, because there is no
longer an associated name to which to translate the ID. To remove these
obsolete entries from ACLs, use the B<fs cleanacl> command.

=item *

Deleting a user or machine's entry removes it from the membership list of
any group to which it belonged.

=item *

Deleting a group entry removes it from the membership list of any user or
machine entry that belonged to the group, and also increments the
group-creation quota of the group's creator by one, even if the creator no
longer owns the group.

=back

To remove a user or machine from a group without actually deleting the
entry, use the B<pts removeuser> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-nameorid> <I<user or group name or ID>>+

Specifies the name or AFS UID of each user, the name or AFS GID of each
group, or the IP address (complete or wildcard-style) or AFS UID of each
machine entry to delete. It is acceptable to mix users, machines, and
groups on the same command line, as well as names (IP addresses for
machines) and IDs. Precede the GID of each group with a hyphen to indicate
that it is negative.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
L<pts(1)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. For more
details, see L<pts(1)>.

=item B<-force>

Enables the command to continue executing as far as possible when errors
or other problems occur, rather than halting execution at the first error.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example deletes the user entries C<pat> and C<terry>:

   % pts delete pat terry

The following example deletes the Protection Database entry of the group
with AFS GID -215.

   % pts delete -215

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must belong to the system:administrators group to delete user
and machine entries. To delete group entries, the issuer must either own
the group or belong to the system:administrators group.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_cleanacl(1)>,
L<pts(1)>,
L<pts_removeuser(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
