=head1 NAME

pts_membership - Displays the membership list for a user or group

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<pts membership> S<<< B<-nameorid> <I<user or group name or id>>+ >>>
    S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-localauth>] [B<-noauth>] 
    [B<-force>] [B<-help>]

B<pts m> S<<< B<-na> <I<user or group name or id>>+ >>> S<<< [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] >>>
    [B<-no>] [B<-l>] [B<-f>] [B<-h>]

B<pts groups> S<<< B<-na> <I<user or group name or id>>+ >>> [-c <I<cell name>>]
    [B<-no>] [B<-l>] [B<-f>] [B<-h>]

B<pts g> S<<< B<-na> <I<user or group name or id>>+ >>> S<<< [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] >>>
    [B<-no>] [B<-l>] [B<-f>] [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<pts membership> command lists the groups to which each user or
machine specified by the B<-nameorid> argument belongs, or lists the users
and machines that belong to each group specified by the B<-nameorid>
argument.

It is not possible to list the members of the system:anyuser or
system:authuser groups, and they do not appear in the list of groups to
which a user belongs.

To add users or machine to groups, use the pts adduser command; to remove
them, use the B<pts removeuser> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-nameorid> <I<user or group name or id>>+

Specifies the name or AFS UID of each user entry, the IP address (complete
or wildcard-style) or AFS UID of each machine entry, or the name or AFS
GID of each group, for which to list group membership. It is acceptable to
mix users, machines, and groups on the same command line, as well as names
and IDs. Precede the GID of each group with a hyphen to indicate that it
is negative.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
L<pts(1)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. For more
details, see L<pts(1)>.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. Do not combine this flag with the 
B<-cell> or B<-noauth> options. For more details, see L<pts(1)>.

=item B<-force>

Enables the command to continue executing as far as possible when errors
or other problems occur, rather than halting execution at the first error.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

For each user and machine, the output begins with the following header
line, followed by a list of the groups to which the user or machine
belongs:

   Groups <name> (id: <AFS UID>) is a member of:

For each group, the output begins with the following header line, followed
by a list of the users and machines who belong to the group:

   Members of <group_name> (id: <AFS GID>) are:

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example lists the groups to which the user C<pat> belongs
and the members of the group C<smith:friends>.  Note that third privacy
flag for the C<pat> entry was changed from the default hyphen to enable a
non-administrative user to obtain this listing.

   % pts membership pat smith:friends
   Groups pat (id: 1144) is a member of:
     smith:friends
     staff
     johnson:project-team
   Members of smith:friends (id: -562) are:
     pat
     terry
     jones
     richard
     thompson

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The required privilege depends on the setting of the third privacy flag in
the Protection Database entry of each user or group indicated by the
B<-nameorid> argument (use the B<pts examine> command to display the
flags):

=over 4

=item *

If it is the hyphen and the B<-nameorid> argument specifies a user, only
the associated user and members of the system:administrators group can
list the groups to which the user belongs.

=item *

If it is the hyphen and the B<-nameorid> argument specifies a machine,
only the members of the system:administrators group can list the groups to
which the machine belongs.

=item *

If it is the hyphen and the B<-nameorid> argument specifies a group, only
the owner of the group and members of the system:administrators group can
list the members of the group.

=item *

If it is lowercase C<m> and the B<-nameorid> argument specifies a user or
machine entry, the meaning is equivalent to the hyphen.

=item *

If it is lowercase C<m> and the B<-nameorid> argument specifies a group,
members of the group can also list the other members.

=item *

If it is uppercase C<M>, anyone who can access the cell's database server
machines can list group memberships.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<pts(1)>,
L<pts_adduser(1)>,
L<pts_examine(1)>,
L<pts_removeuser(1)>,
L<pts_setfields(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
