=head1 NAME

pts_listmax - Displays the max user id and max group id counters

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<pts listmax> S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-noauth>] [B<-force>] [B<-help>]

B<pts listm> S<<< [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-n>] [B<-f>] [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<pts listmax> command displays the values of the C<max user id> and
C<max group id> counters, which the Protection Server uses to track the
AFS user IDs (AFS UIDs) it allocates to new users or machines, and the AFS
group IDs (AFS GIDs) it allocates to new groups, respectively. When an
administrator next issues the B<pts createuser> command and does not
include the B<-id> argument, the new user or machine receives an AFS UID
one greater than the C<max user id> counter, and when a user issues the
B<pts creategroup> command and does not include the B<-id> argument, the
new group receives an AFS UID one less (more negative) than the C<max
group id> counter.

To reset one or both counters, members of the system:administrators group
can issue the B<pts setmax> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
L<pts(1)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. For more
details, see L<pts(1)>.

=item B<-force>

Enables the command to continue executing as far as possible when errors
or other problems occur, rather than halting execution at the first error.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The command displays the counters in the following format:

   Max user id is <user_counter> and max group id is <group_counter>.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example displays the output of this command:

   % pts listmax
   Max user name is 1271 and max group id is -382.

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<pts(1)>,
L<pts_setmax(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
