=head1 NAME

pts_source - Read pts commands from a file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<pts source> S<<< [B<-file>] <I<file name>> >>> S<<< [B<-cell>] <I<cell name>> >>>
   [B<-noauth>] [B<-force>]

B<pts so> S<<< [B<-f>] <I<file name>> >>> S<<< [B<-c>] <I<cell name>> >>>
   [B<-n>] [B<-f>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<pts source> runs commands from a file as if they were typed in B<pts
interactive> mode. The command can be run from the command line or
interactively.

=head1 CAUTIONS

Prior to OpenAFS 1.4.5 and OpenAFS 1.5.23, the B<pts source> command was
only available on Unix or Linux and when OpenAFS was compiled with the
supergroups option (disabled by default).  As of OpenAFS 1.4.5 and 1.5.23,
it is always available.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<pts source> takes the following options:

=over 4

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
L<pts(1)>.

=item B<-file> <I<file name>>

Specifies the filename from which to read commands.

=item B<-force>

Enables the command to continue executing as far as possible when errors
or other problems occur, rather than halting execution at the first error.
This is useful for bulk operations where you would like to continue even
if one of many operations fails.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. For more
details, see L<pts(1)>.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

This command shows the output of each comand in the file as if it were
run normally.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Here is an example of using B<pts source> in a B<pts interactive> session:

   % echo examine admin > /tmp/commands.txt 
   % pts interactive
   pts> source /tmp/commands.txt
   Name: admin, id: 1, owner: system:administrators, creator: anonymous,
     membership: 2, flags: S----, group quota: 20.
   pts> quit
   %

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<pts(1)>,
L<pts_interactive(1)>,
L<pts_quit(1)>,
L<pts_sleep(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007 Jason Edgecombe <jason@rampaginggeek.com>

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0. This
man page was written by Jason Edgecombe for OpenAFS.
