=head1 NAME

symlink_remove - Remove a symbolic link.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<symlink remove> S<<< [B<-name>] <I<file name>> >>> [B<-help>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<symlink remove> command removes a symbolic link to a file.

=head1 CAUTIONS

The B<symlink> commands are only available on Windows platforms. On other
platforms, use the B<rm> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item [B<-name>] <I<file name>>

Specify one or more symbolic links to remove.  The B<-name> is optional, but
the file name is not.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command.  All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

This command has no output except error and help messages.  If the command
is passed a real file instead of a symlink, it prints "symlink: 'file name'
is not a symlink" instead of removing the file.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Given that file C<mylink> is a link pointing to file C<myfile>, the
following commands will remove the link C<mylink>:

   % symlink remove -name mylink
   % symlink remove mylink

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the C<l> (look) and C<d> (delete) permissions on
the ACL of the directory that houses the symlink.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<symlink(1)>,
L<symlink_list(1)>,
L<symlink_make(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007 Jason Edgecombe <jason@rampaginggeek.com>

This documentation is covered by the BSD License as written in the
doc/LICENSE file. This man page was written by Jason Edgecombe for
OpenAFS.
