=head1 NAME

symlink_make - Create a symbolic link

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<symlink make> S<<< [B<-name>] <I<file name>> >>>
   S<<< [B<-to>] <I<file name>> >>> [B<-help>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<symlink make> command creates a new symbolic link to a file.  The file
to which the link points does not have to exist when the link is created.

=head1 CAUTIONS

The B<symlink> commands are only available on Windows platforms.  On other
platforms, use the C<ln -s> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item [B<-name>] <I<file name>>

Specify the name of the new link.  B<-name> is optional, but the file name
is not.

=item [B<-to>] <I<file name>>

Specify the file to which the new link points.  B<-to> is optional, but the
file name is not.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command.  All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

Prints the online help for this command.  All other valid options are
ignored.

=head1 EXAMPLES

In order to create a link named C<mylink> pointing to the file C<myfile>,
use one of the following commands:

   % symlink make -name mylink -to myfile
   % symlink make mylink myfile

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the C<l> (look) and C<i> (insert) permissions on the
ACL of the directory that houses the symlink.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<symlink(1)>,
L<symlink_list(1)>,
L<symlink_remove(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007 Jason Edgecombe <jason@rampaginggeek.com>

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0. This
man page was written by Jason Edgecombe for OpenAFS.
