=head1 NAME

symlink_list - Show the file to which a symlink points

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<symlink list> S<<< [B<-name>] <I<file name>> >>> [B<-help>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<symlink list> command shows if a file is a symbolic link and, if so,
shows to which file the link points.

=head1 CAUTIONS

The B<symlink> commands are only available on Windows platforms.  On other
platforms, use the B<readlink> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item [B<-name>] <I<file name>>

Specify one or more symbolic links to list.  The C<-name> is optional, but
the file name is not.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command.  All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

This command prints "'file' is a symlink to 'otherfile'" or "'file' is
not a symlink."

=head1 EXAMPLES

Given that file C<mylink> is a link pointing to file C<myfile>, the
following commands will list the files:

   % symlink list -name mylink
   'mylink' is a symlink to 'myfile'

   % symlink list mylink
   'mylink' is a symlink to 'myfile'

   % symlink list -name myfile
   'myfile' is not a symlink.

   % symlink list myfile
   'myfile' is not a symlink.

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the C<l> (look) and C<r> (read) permissions on the ACL
of the directory that houses the symlink.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<symlink(1)>,
L<symlink_make(1)>,
L<symlink_remove(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007 Jason Edgecombe <jason@rampaginggeek.com>

This documentation is covered by the BSD License as written in the
doc/LICENSE file. This man page was written by Jason Edgecombe for
OpenAFS.
