=head1 NAME

sys - Reports the compile-time CPU/operating system type

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<sys>

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<sys> command displays the string set at compile time that indicates
the local machine's CPU/operating system (OS) type, conventionally called
the I<sysname>.  This string is the default for the value stored in kernel
memory.  The Cache Manager substitutes this string for the I<@sys>
variable which can occur in AFS pathnames; the I<IBM AFS Quick Beginnings>
and I<IBM AFS Administration Guide> explain how using I<@sys> can simplify
cell configuration.

To set a new value in kernel memory, use the B<fs sysname> command.  To
view the current value set in the kernel, use either B<fs sysname> or
B<livesys>.

=head1 CAUTIONS

You almost always want to use B<livesys> rather than this command.  The
B<sys> command displays a single value hard-coded at compile time.  It
does not query the Cache Manager for the current value and it does not
report sysname lists.  If you have changed the local system type with B<fs
sysname>, or if you run a version of B<sys> compiled differently than the
Cache Manager running on the system, the value retured will not match the
behavior of the Cache Manager.  The only reason to use B<sys> is that
B<livesys> wasn't available in older versions of AFS.

=head1 OUTPUT

The machine's system type appears as a text string:

   I<system_type>

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows the output produced on a Sun SPARCStation
running Solaris 5.7:

   % sys
   sun4x_57

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_sysname(1)>,
L<livesys(1)>

I<OpenAFS Quick Beginnings>

I<OpenAFS Administration Guide>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
