=head1 NAME

tokens - Displays the issuer's tokens

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<tokens> [-help]

B<tokens> [-h]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The tokens command displays all tokens (tickets) cached on the
local machine for the issuer. AFS server processes require that their
clients present a token as evidence that they have authenticated in the
server's local cell.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output lists one token for each cell in which the user is
authenticated. The output indicates the

=over 4

=item *

User's AFS UID, if it is available for display.


=item *

Server for which the token is valid (normally, afs).
This includes a cell specification.


=item *

Day and time the token expires.


=back

The output of the Kerberos version of this command,
B<tokens.krb>, also reports the following about the Kerberos
ticket-granting ticket: the ticket owner, which Kerberos ticket-granting
service that issued the ticket (for example,
B<krbtgt.ABC.COM>), and ticket's expiration
date.

The string C<--End of list--> appears at the end of the
output. If the user is not authenticated in any cell, this line is all
that appears.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows the output when the issuer is not authenticated
in any cell.

   % tokens
   Tokens held by the Cache Manager:

      --End of list--
   

The following example shows the output when the issuer is authenticated in
ABC Corporation cell, where he or she has AFS UID 1000.

   % tokens
   Tokens held by the Cache Manager:

   User's (AFS ID 1000) tokens for afs@abc.com [Expires Jan 2 10:00]
      --End of list--
   

The following example shows the output when the issuer is authenticated in
the ABC Corporation cell, the State University cell, and the XYZ Company
cell. The user has different AFS UIDs in the three cells. Tokens
for last cell are expired:

   % tokens
   Tokens held by the Cache Manager:

   User's (AFS ID 1000) tokens for afs@abc.com [Expires Jan 3 10:00]
   User's (AFS ID 4286) tokens for afs@stateu.edu [Expires Jan 3 1:34]
   User's (AFS ID 22) tokens for afs@xyz.com [>>Expired<]
      --End of list--
   

The following example shows the output when the issuer uses the
B<tokens.krb> version of the command after authenticating in
the ABC Corporation cell using the B<klog.krb> command.

   % tokens.krb
   Tokens held by the Cache Manager:

   User's (AFS ID 1000) tokens for afs@abc.com [Expires Jan 31 00:09]
   User smiths tokens for krbtgt.ABC.COM@abc.com [Expires Jan 31 00:09]
      --End of list--
   

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<klog(1)>,
L<unlog(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
