=head1 NAME

unlog - Discards all of the issuer's tokens

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<unlog> [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>+]  [-help]

B<unlog> [B<-c ><I<cell name>>+]  [-h]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The unlog command by default discards all tokens that the issuer
currently holds. To discard tokens for certain cells only, name them
with the B<-cell> argument.

Since a token pertains to one client machine only, destroying tokens on one
machine has no effect on tokens on another machine.

=head1 CAVEATS

Specifying one or more cell names can cause a brief authentication outage
during which the issuer has no valid tokens in any cell. This is
because the command actually discards all tokens and then restores the ones
for cells not named by the B<-cell> argument. The outage can
sometimes interrupt the operation of jobs that require authentication.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -cell

Specifies each cell for to discard the token. If this argument is
omitted, the Cache Manager discards all tokens. Provide the fully
qualified domain name, or a shortened form, in which case successful
resolution depends on the availability of a name resolution service (such as
the Domain Name Service or a local host table) at the time the command is
issued.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command discards all tokens.

   % unlog

The following command discards only the tokens for the
B<abc.com> and B<stateu.edu> cells.

   % unlog -cell abc.com stateu

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<klog(1)>,
L<tokens(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
