=head1 NAME

vos syncvldb - Verifies VLDB entries for volumes residing at specified site

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<vos syncvldb> [B<-server> <I<machine name>>]  [-partition <I<partition name>>] 
[B<-volume> <I<volume name or ID>>]  [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-noauth>]  
             [B<-localauth>]  [B<-verbose>]  [-help]

B<vos syncv> [B<-s> <I<machine name>>]  [B<-p> <I<partition name>>]  [-vo <I<volume name or ID>>] 
[B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-ve>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The vos syncvldb command verifies that the status of the volumes
housed either on all partitions on the file server machine specified by the
B<-server> argument, or on the single partition specified by the
B<-server> and B<-partition> arguments, is recorded correctly
in the VLDB. If the B<-volume> argument is included to indicate
a single volume, the command compares only its status on the file server
machine with its VLDB entry.

If the -volume argument is not included, the command interpreter
obtains from the Volume Server a list of the volumes that reside on each
partition, then changes information in the VLDB as necessary to reflect their
state on the partition. For example, it creates or updates a VLDB entry
when it finds a volume for which the VLDB entry is missing or
incomplete. However, if there is already a VLDB entry that defines a
different location for the volume, or there are irreconcilable conflicts with
other VLDB entries, it instead writes a message about the conflict to the
standard error stream. The command never removes volumes from the file
server machine.

To achieve complete VLDB consistency, run this command on all file server
machines in the cell, and then run the B<vos syncserv> command on all
file server machines in the cell.

Using the -volume argument basically combines the effects of
this command with those of the B<vos syncserv> command, for a single
volume. The command not only verifies that the VLDB entry is correct
for the specified volume type (read/write, backup, or read-only), but also
checks that any related volume types mentioned in the VLDB entry actually
exist at the site listed in the entry. It is not necessary to provide
the B<-server> argument (and optionally, B<-partition>
argument); if one or both is provided, the results are reliable only if
they specify the actual location of the volume indicated by the
B<-volume> argument.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -server

Identifies the file server machine housing the volumes for which to verify
VLDB entries. Provide the machine's IP address or its host name
(either fully qualified or using an unambiguous abbreviation). For
details, see the introductory reference page for the B<vos> command
suite.

=item -partition

Identifies the partition housing the volumes for which to verify VLDB
entries. Provide the B<-server> argument along with this
one. Provide the partition's complete name with preceding slash
(for example, B</vicepa>) or use one of the three acceptable
abbreviated forms. For details, see the introductory reference page for
the B<vos> command suite.

=item -volume

Specifies the name or volume ID number of a single volume for which to
verify the VLDB entry. This argument can be combined with the
B<-server> (and optionally, the B<-partition>)
argument.

=item -cell

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<vos> reference page.

=item -noauth

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the
issuer. Do not combine this flag with the B<-localauth>
flag. For more details, see the introductory B<vos> reference
page.

=item -localauth

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<vos> command
interpreter presents it to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during
mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument or B<-noauth> flag. For more details,
see the introductory B<vos> reference page.

=item -verbose

Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the
command's execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings
and error messages appear.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example command verifies the VLDB entry for each volume
stored on the file server machine B<fs4.abc.com>.

   % vos syncvldb fs4.abc.com

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the /usr/afs/etc/UserList file on
the machine specified with the B<-server> argument and on each
database server machine. If the B<-localauth> flag is included,
the issuer must instead be logged on to a server machine as the local
superuser B<root>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<vos(1)>,
L<vos_syncserv(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
