=head1 NAME

vos unlock - Unlocks a single VLDB entry

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<vos unlock -id> <I<volume name or ID>>  [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]  [-noauth] 
[B<-localauth>]  [B<-verbose>]  [B<-help>]

B<vos unlock -i> <I<volume name or ID>>  [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-v>]  [-h]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The vos unlock command releases the lock on the Volume Location
Database (VLDB) entry for the indicated volume.

=head1 CAVEATS

Do not user this command under normal circumstances.

It is useful if the VLDB entry is locked but there is no reason to suspect
inconsistency within the volume or between it and the VLDB. Note that
it is possible to list information from locked VLDB entries, even though they
cannot be manipulated in other ways.

The vos unlockvldb command unlocks several VLDB entries at once,
or even the entire VLDB. The B<vos lock> command locks a VLDB
entry so that no one else can perform an action that requires writing the
VLDB.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -id

Specifies either the complete name or volume ID number of a volume of any
of the three types.

=item -cell

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<vos> reference page.

=item -noauth

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the
issuer. Do not combine this flag with the B<-localauth>
flag. For more details, see the introductory B<vos> reference
page.

=item -localauth

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<vos> command
interpreter presents it to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during
mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument or B<-noauth> flag. For more details,
see the introductory B<vos> reference page.

=item -verbose

Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the
command's execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings
and error messages appear.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example unlocks the VLDB entry for the volume
B<user.terry>.

   % vos unlock user.terry

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the /usr/afs/etc/UserList file on
the machine specified with the B<-server> argument and on each
database server machine. If the B<-localauth> flag is included,
the issuer must instead be logged on to a server machine as the local
superuser B<root>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<vos(1)>,
L<vos_lock(1)>,
L<vos_unlockvldb(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
