=head1 NAME

vos_size - Computes the size of a volume dump

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<vos size> S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-dump>]
    [B<-encrypt>] [B<-help>] [B<-id>] <I<volume name or id>>
    [B<-localauth>] [B<-noauth>]
    S<<< [B<-partition> <I<partition name>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-server> <I<machine name>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-time> <I<dump from time>>] >>> [B<-verbose>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<vos size> command shows the size of a volume's dump for backup
purposes. The size of the dump may differ from the volume size as reported
by B<vos examine> or B<fs listquota>. The size is shown in bytes.

This command is intended for use with backup systems that want to size
volume dumps before performing them (to optimize use of tape resources,
for example).

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

The cell in which the volume resides, if it's not in the current cell.

=item B<-dump>

Show the size of the volume dump for the specified volume. Currently, this
flag should always be given for B<vos size> to give useful information.
It is present to allow this command to provide other size estimates in the
future.

=item B<-encrypt>

Encrypt the command.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=item B<-id> <I<volume name or id>>

Specifies either the complete name or volume ID number of the read/write,
read-only, or backup volume to size.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<vos> command interpreter presents it
to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> argument or
B<-noauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. Do not combine
this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-partition> <I<partition name>>

Specifies the partition on which the volume resides. Provide the
B<-server> argument along with this one.

=item B<-server> <I<machine name>>

Specifies the file server machine on which the volume resides.  Provide
the B<-partition> argument along with this one.

=item B<-time> <I<dump from time>>

Specifies whether the dump is full or incremental. Omit this argument to
size a full dump. See L<vos_dump(1)> for the valid values for this
option.

=item B<-verbose>

Show more output about what's going on.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

When run without B<-verbose>, the output will be:

   Volume: <volume>
   dump_size: <size>

where <volume> is the name of the volume and <size> is the size of the
dump in bytes. With B<-verbose>, additional status messages will be
printed between those two lines.

=head1 EXAMPLES

Sizing a single user volume:

   % vos size user.thoron -dump
   Volume: user.thoron
   dump_size: 36430

or, more verbosely:

   % vos size user.thoron -dump -verbose
   Volume: user.thoron
   Starting transaction on volume 2003434023... done
   Getting size of volume on volume 2003434023... done
   Ending transaction on volume 2003434023... done
   dump_size: 36430

Sizing an incremental dump for the same volume:

   % vos size -id user.thoron -time '05/04/2007 00:00:00' -dump 
   Volume: user.thoron
   dump_size: 21095

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the
machine specified with the B<-server> argument or the machine on which the
volume is located if B<-server> was not given.  If the B<-localauth> flag
is included, the issuer must instead be logged on to a server machine as
the local superuser C<root>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_listquota(1)>,
L<vos_dump(1)>,
L<vos_examine(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007 Jason Edgecombe <jason@rampaginggeek.com>

This documentation is covered by the BSD License as written in the
doc/LICENSE file. This man page was written by Jason Edgecombe for
OpenAFS.
