=head1 NAME

vos_partinfo - Reports the available and total space on a partition

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<vos partinfo> S<<< B<-server> <I<machine name>> >>>
    S<<< [B<-partition> <I<partition name>>] >>> S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>>
    [B<-noauth>] [B<-localauth>] [B<-verbose>] [B<-help>]

B<vos p> S<<< B<-s> <I<machine name>> >>> S<<< [B<-p> <I<partition name>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-n>] [B<-l>] [B<-v>] [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The vos partinfo command reports the amount of space available and total
size on either all of the partitions on the indicated file server machine
(if the B<-partition> argument is omitted) or the specified partition on
that file server machine. The Volume Location Database (VLDB) is not
consulted.

=head1 CAUTIONS

Currently, the maximum size of a volume is 2 terabytes (2^31 bytes)
and the maximum size of a /vicepX partition on a fileserver is also 2
terabytes. The fileserver will not report an error when it has access
to a partition larger than 2 terabytes, but it will probably fail if
the administrator attempts to use more than 2 terabytes of space. In
addition, there are reports of erroneous disk usage numbers when
B<vos partinfo> or other OpenAFS disk reporting tools are used with
partitions larger than 2 terabytes.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> <I<server name>>

Identifies the file server machine for which to display partition
information. Provide the machine's IP address or its host name (either
fully qualified or using an unambiguous abbreviation). For details, see
L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-partition> <I<partition name>>

Identifies which partition on the file server machine specified by the
B<-server> argument for which to display information. Provide the
partition's complete name with preceding slash (for example, C</vicepa>)
or use one of the three acceptable abbreviated forms. For details, see
L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity C<anonymous> to the issuer. Do not
combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see
L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<vos> command interpreter presents it
to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> argument or
B<-noauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-verbose>

Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the command's
execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings and error messages
appear.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 CAUTIONS

The partition-related statistics in this command's output do not always
agree with the corresponding values in the output of the standard UNIX
B<df> command. The statistics reported by this command can be up to five
minutes old, because the Cache Manager polls the File Server for partition
information at that frequency. Also, on some operating systems, the B<df>
command's report of partition size includes reserved space not included in
this command's calculation, and so is likely to be about 10% larger.

=head1 OUTPUT

The output reports the amount of space available and total space for each
specified partition.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command displays all partitions on the file server machine
C<fs2.abc.com>.

   % vos partinfo fs2.abc.com
   Free space on partition /vicepa: 27301 K blocks out of total 549197
   Free space on partition /vicepb: 13646 K blocks out of total 69194
   Free space on partition /vicepc: 31798 K blocks out of total 320315
   Free space on partition /vicepd: 33302 K blocks out of total 494954

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<vos(1)>,
L<vos_listpart(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
