=head1 NAME

vos_addsite - Adds a read-only site definition to a volume's VLDB entry

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<vos addsite> S<<< B<-server> <I<machine name for new site>> >>>
    S<<< B<-partition> <I<partition name for new site>> >>>
    S<<< B<-id> <I<volume name or ID>> >>> S<<< B<-valid> <I<old volume id>> >>>
    S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-noauth>] [B<-localauth>]
    [B<-verbose>] [B<-help>]

B<vos ad> S<<< B<-s> <I<machine name for new site>> >>>
    S<<< B<-p> <I<partition name for new site>> >>>
    S<<< B<-i> <I<volume name or ID>> >>> S<<< B<-valid> <I<old volume id>> >>>
    S<<< [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-n>] [B<-l>] [B<-v>] [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<vos addsite> command defines a new read-only site (partition on a
file server machine, specified by the B<-server> and B<-partition>
arguments) in the Volume Location Database (VLDB) entry of the read/write
volume named by the B<-id> argument. When the B<vos release> command is
next issued against the read/write volume, a read-only copy of it is
distributed to all of the read-only sites, including the newly defined
one.

=head1 CAUTIONS

A volume's VLDB entry accommodates a maximum number of site definitions,
as defined in the I<IBM AFS Release Notes>. The site housing the
read/write and backup versions of the volume counts as one site, and each
read-only site counts as an additional site (even the read-only site
defined on the same file server machine and partition as the read/write
site counts as a separate site). The limit in the VLDB entry effectively
determines the maximum number of copies of the volume that are available
to AFS clients.

Attempts to create additional sites by using this command fail with an
error.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> <I<machine name>>

Identifies the file server machine where the read-only volume is to
reside. Provide the machine's IP address or its host name (either fully
qualified or using an unambiguous abbreviation). For details, see
L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-partition> <I<partition name>>

Identifies the partition where the read-only volume is to reside, on the
file server machine named by the B<-server> argument. Provide the
partition's complete name with preceding slash (for example, C</vicepa>)
or use one of the three acceptable abbreviated forms. For details, see
L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-id> <I<volume name or ID>>

Specifies either the complete name or volume ID number of the read/write
source volume.

=item B<-valid> <I<volume ID>>

Specifies the volume ID number of the existing release-equivalent
volume that is not already marked as a replica. This is useful when an
existing read-only volume is dumped and restored with the B<-readonly>
flag at the new site. This option is available in OpenAFS clients
1.4.7 or later and 1.5.31 and later. This option can be used with
OpenAFS server versions later than 1.4.1 or 1.5.0.

=Item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. Do not combine
this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item -localauth

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<vos> command interpreter presents it
to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> argument or
B<-noauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-verbose>

Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the command's
execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings and error messages
appear.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example, appropriate in the State University cell, defines a
read-only site for the cell's C<root.afs> volume.

   % vos addsite -server sv7.stateu.edu -partition /vicepb -id root.afs

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the
machine specified with the B<-server> argument and on each database server
machine. If the B<-localauth> flag is included, the issuer must instead be
logged on to a server machine as the local superuser C<root>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<vos(1)>,
L<vos_examine(1)>,
L<vos_release(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
