=head1 NAME

vos offline - Takes a volume offline

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<vos offline> S<<< B<-server> <I<machine name>> >>> S<<< B<-partition> <I<partition name>> >>> 
    S<<< B<-id> <I<volume name or ID>> >>> S<<< [B<-unbless>] >>> S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>> 
    S<<< [B<-noauth>] | B<-localauth>] >>> S<<< [B<-verbose>] >>> S<<< [B<-encrypt>] >>> S<<< [B<-help>] >>>

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<vos offline> command takes a volume offline on the 
B<fileserver>.  

=head1 CAUTIONS

Taking a volume offline that has existing 
callbacks will result in those callbacks being broken
and clients not being able to access the volume.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> <I<machine name>>

Identifies the file server machine where the volume resides. 
Provide the machine's IP address or its host name (either fully
qualified or using an unambiguous abbreviation). For details, see
L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-partition> <I<partition name>>

Identifies the partition where the volume resides, on the
file server machine named by the B<-server> argument. Provide the
partition's complete name with preceding slash (for example, C</vicepa>)
or use one of the three acceptable abbreviated forms. For details, see
L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-id> <I<volume name or ID>>

Specifies either the complete name or volume ID number of the volume.

=item B<-unbless>

If the volume resides on a fileserver running as a I<dafs> (Demand
Attach File Server), then the volume may be marked as I<blessed> or
I<unblessed>.  A I<dafs> server will not bring I<unblessed> volumes
online unless the B<-bless> option to L<vos_online> is specified.
See L<vos_online(1)> for setting a volume to be I<blessed>.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. Do not combine
this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<vos> command interpreter presents it
to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> argument or
B<-noauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-verbose>

Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the command's
execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings and error messages
appear.

=item B<-encrypt>

Encrypts the command so that the operation's results are
not transmitted across the network in clear text.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example takes an online volume offline:

   % vos offline -server sv7.stateu.edu -partition /vicepb -id root.afs

The following example takes an online volume offline and marks it
so that a B<vos online> without B<-bless> will not bring it online:

   % vos offline -server sv7.stateu.edu -partition /vicepb -id root.afs \
	-unbless

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the
machine specified with the B<-server> argument and on each database server
machine. If the B<-localauth> flag is included, the issuer must instead be
logged on to a server machine as the local superuser C<root>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<vos(1)>,
L<vos_online(1)>,
L<bos_salvage(8)>,

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This man page was created by Steven Jenkins.
