=head1 NAME

vos_copy - Make a copy of a volume

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<vos copy> S<<< [B<-id>] <I<volume name or ID of source>> >>>
   S<<< [B<-fromserver>] <I<machine name for source>> >>>
   S<<< [B<-frompartition>] <I<partition name for source>> >>>
   S<<< [B<-toname>] <I<volume name for new copy>> >>>
   S<<< [B<-toserver>] <I<machine name for destination>> >>>
   S<<< [B<-topartition>] <I<partition name for destination>> >>>
   [B<-offline>] [B<-readonly>] [B<-live>] S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>>
   [B<-noauth>] [B<-localauth>] [B<-verbose>] [B<-encrypt>] [B<-help>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<vos copy> command makes a copy of a volume with a new name.  It is
equivalent to B<vos dump> followed by B<vos restore>, but doesn't require
the volume be stored locally by the client.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item [B<-id>] <I<volume name or ID>>

Specifies either the complete name or volume ID number of a read/write
volume.

=item [B<-fromserver>] <I<machine name for source>>

Identifies the file server machine where the source volume resides. Provide
the machine's IP address or its host name (either fully qualified or using
an unambiguous abbreviation). For details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item [B<-frompartition>] <I<partition name for source>>

Names the partition where the source volume resides. Provide the full
partition name (for, example, B</vicepa>) or one of the abbreviated forms
described in L<vos(1)>.

=item [B<-toname>] <I<volume name for new copy>>

The complete name of the new volume to create.

=item [B<-toserver>] <I<machine name for destination>>

Identifies the file server machine to which to copy the volume.  Provide
the machine's IP address or its host name (either fully qualified or using
an unambiguous abbreviation). For details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item [B<-topartition>] <I<partition name for destination>>

Names the partition to which to copy the volume. Provide the full partition
name (for, example, B</vicepa>) or one of the abbreviated forms described in
L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-offline>

Leaves the new volume flagged as off-line in the volume database.

=item B<-readonly>

Flags the new volume as read-only in the volume database.

=item B<-live>

Copies the live volume without cloning.  This is normally not necessary and
causes the volume to be kept locked for longer than the normal copy
mechanism.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<vos> command interpreter presents it to
the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> argument or
B<-noauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-verbose>

Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the command's
execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings and error messages
appear.

=item B<-encrypt>

Encrypts the command so that the operation's results are not transmitted
across the network in clear text.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

This command has no output unless C<-verbose> is specified or there is
an error.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example makes a verbose copy of the C<test> volume named
C<test2> in the cell C<localcell>. The volume and copy both reside on
C</vicepa> of C<server1>.

   % vos copy test server1  a test2 server1 a -cell localcell -verbose
   Starting transaction on source volume 536870921 ... done
   Allocating new volume id for clone of volume 536870921 ... done
   Allocating new volume id for copy of volume 536870921 ... done
   Cloning source volume 536870921 ... done
   Ending the transaction on the source volume 536870921 ... done
   Starting transaction on the cloned volume 536870926 ... done
   Setting flags on cloned volume 536870926 ... done
   Getting status of cloned volume 536870926 ... done
   Creating the destination volume 536870927 ... done
   Setting volume flags on destination volume 536870927 ... done
   Dumping from clone 536870926 on source to volume 536870927 on destination ... done
   Ending transaction on cloned volume 536870926 ... done
   Starting transaction on source volume 536870921 ... done
   Doing the incremental dump from source to destination for volume 536870921 ...  done
   Setting volume flags on destination volume 536870927 ... done
   Ending transaction on destination volume 536870927 ... done
   Ending transaction on source volume 536870921 ... done
   Starting transaction on the cloned volume 536870926 ... done
   Deleting the cloned volume 536870926 ... done
   Ending transaction on cloned volume 536870926 ... done
   Created the VLDB entry for the volume test2 536870927
   Volume 536870921 copied from server1 /vicepa to test2 on server1 /vicepa 

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the
machine specified with the B<-server> argument and on each database server
machine. If the B<-localauth> flag is included, the issuer must instead be
logged on to a server machine as the local superuser C<root>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<vos(1)>,
L<vos_clone(1)>,
L<vos_move(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007 Jason Edgecombe <jason@rampaginggeek.com>

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0. This
man page was written by Jason Edgecombe for OpenAFS.
