=head1 NAME

vos create - Creates a read/write volume and associated VLDB entry

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<vos create -server> <I<machine name>>  -partition <I<partition name>>
B<-name> <I<volume name>>  [B<-maxquota> <I<initial quota (KB)>>]  
           [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-noauth>]  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-verbose>]  [-help]

B<vos cr -s> <I<machine name>>  B<-p> <I<partition name>>  -na <I<volume name>>
[B<-m> <I<initial quota (KB)>>]  [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-no>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-v>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The vos create command creates a read/write volume with the name
specified by the B<-name> argument at the site specified by the
B<-server> and B<-partition> arguments. In addition,
the command allocates or sets the following:

=over 4

=item *

Volume ID numbers for the read/write volume and its associated read-only
and backup volumes (this command does not actually create the latter two types
of volume). A volume ID number is an identification number guaranteed
to be unique within a cell. 
L<(1)>
L<(1)>
L<(1)>
L<(1)>
L<(1)>
L<(1)>


=item *

An access control list (ACL) associated with the volume's root
directory, which takes the same name as volume's mount point when the
volume is mounted with the B<fs mkmount> command. An entry that
grants all seven permissions to the members of the
B<system:administrators> group is automatically placed on the
ACL. (In addition, the File Server by default always implicitly grants
the B<l> (B<lookup>) and B<a> (B<administer>)
permissions on every ACL to members of the
B<system:administrators> group, even when the group does not
appear on an ACL; use the B<-implicit> argument to the
B<fileserver> initialization command to alter the set of rights on a
server-by-server basis if desired.)


=item *

The volume's space quota, set to 5000 kilobyte blocks by
default. Use the B<-maxquota> argument to specify a different
quota, or use the B<fs setquota> command to change the volume's
quota after mounting the volume with the B<fs mkmount> command.


=back

The volume is empty when created. To access it via the Cache
Manager, mount it in the file space by using the B<fs mkmount>
command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -server

Identifies the file server machine on which to create the read/write
volume. Provide the machine's IP address or its host name (either
fully qualified or using an unambiguous abbreviation). For details, see
the introductory reference page for the B<vos> command suite.

=item -partition

Identifies the partition on which to create the read/write volume, on the
file server machine specified by the B<-server> argument.
Provide the partition's complete name with preceding slash (for example,
B</vicepa>) or use one of the three acceptable abbreviated
forms. For details, see the introductory reference page for the
B<vos> command suite.

=item -name

Specifies a name for the read/write volume. The maximum length is
22 characters, which can include any alphanumeric or punctuation
character. By convention, periods separate the fields in a name.
Do not apply the B<.backup> or B<.readonly>
extension to a read/write volume name; they are reserved for the Volume
Server to add to the read/write name when creating those backup and read-only
volumes respectively.

=item -maxquota

Specifies the maximum amount of disk space the volume can use, as a number
of kilobyte blocks (a value of B<1024> is one megabyte). The
value B<0> (zero) grants an unlimited quota, but the size of the disk
partition that houses the volume places an absolute limit on its size.
If this argument is omitted, the default value is B<5000>.

=item -cell

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<vos> reference page.

=item -noauth

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the
issuer. Do not combine this flag with the B<-localauth>
flag. For more details, see the introductory B<vos> reference
page.

=item -localauth

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<vos> command
interpreter presents it to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during
mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument or B<-noauth> flag. For more details,
see the introductory B<vos> reference page.

=item -verbose

Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the
command's execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings
and error messages appear.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The Volume Server produces the following message to confirm that it created
the volume:

   Volume I<volume_ID> created on partition I<partition_name> of I<machine_name>

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command creates the read/write volume
B<user.pat> on the B</vicepf> partition of the file
server machine B<fs4.abc.com>.

   % vos create -server fs4.abc.com -partition /vicepf -name user.pat
   Volume user.pat created on partition /vicepf of fs4.abc.com

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the /usr/afs/etc/UserList file on
the machine specified with the B<-server> argument and on each
database server machine. If the B<-localauth> flag is included,
the issuer must instead be logged on to a server machine as the local
superuser B<root>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<vos(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
