=head1 NAME

vos_apropos - Displays each help entry containing a keyword string

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<vos apropos> S<<< B<-topic> <I<help string>> >>> [B<-help>]

B<vos ap> S<<< B<-t> <I<help string>> >>> [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<vos apropos> command displays the first line of the online help
entry for any B<vos> command that has in its name or short description the
string specified by the B<-topic> argument.

To display the syntax for a command, use the B<vos help> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-topic> <I<help string>>

Specifies the keyword string to match. Use lowercase letters only, except
for the acronym C<VLDB>. If the string is more than a single word,
surround it with double quotes ("") or other delimiters.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The first line of a command's online help entry names it and briefly
describes its function. This command displays the first line for any
B<vos> command where the string specified with the B<-topic> argument is
part of the command name or first line.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command displays all vos commands that include the word
B<lock> in their names or short descriptions:

   % vos apropos lock
   lock: lock VLDB entry for a volume
   unlock: release lock on VLDB entry for a volume
   unlockvldb: unlock all the locked entries in the VLDB

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<vos(1)>,
L<vos_help(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
