=head1 NAME

vos changeaddr - Changes or removes a file server machine's entry in the VLDB

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<vos changeaddr -oldaddr> <I<original IP address>>  [-newaddr <I<new IP address>>] 
[B<-remove>]  [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-noauth>]  [B<-localauth>]  
               [B<-verbose>]  [-help]

B<vos ch -o> <I<original IP address>>  [B<-ne> <I<new IP address>>]  [-r]  
[B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-no>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-v>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The vos changeaddr command removes a server entry from the
Volume Location Database (VLDB) when the B<-remove> flag is combined
with the B<-oldaddr> argument. There must be no VLDB entries
that list the machine as a site for any version of a volume (if necessary, use
the B<vos move> or B<vos remove> command to more or remove
volumes). It is appropriate to remove a VLDB server entry when removing
the corresponding file server machine from service; this is the only
recommended use of the command.

To display all VLDB server entries, use the vos listaddrs
command.

=head1 CAVEATS

Combining the command's B<-oldaddr> and -newaddr
arguments is no longer the appropriate way to change the IP address registered
for a file server machine. Furthermore, if a machine is multihomed and
its server entry includes several addresses, then the address specified with
the B<-newaddr> argument replaces all of the addresses currently
listed in the server entry that includes the address specified by the
B<-oldaddr> argument. This effectively makes the machine
single-homed with respect to AFS operations, which is probably not the desired
result.

The recommended method for changing the IP addresses in a server entry is
instead to restart the B<fs> process group (which includes the File
Server) after using the utilities provided by the operating system to
reconfigure the machine's network interfaces. For a description of
how the File Server constructs and registers a list of its network interfaces
in the VLDB, see the reference page for the B<sysid> file.

If, counter to recommended usage, the command is used to change the IP
address in a server entry, it does not also change the names of machine
entries in the Protection Database. Operations fail when they refer to
a protection group that has an obsolete IP address in it. Use the
B<pts rename> command to change the names of machine entries that
correspond to the addresses changed with this command. Changing the
address of a database server machine also requires updating the client and
server versions of the B<CellServDB> file on every machine.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -oldaddr

Specifies the IP address currently registered for the file server machine
in the VLDB server entry. If there are multiple addresses registered
for a multihomed machine, use any of them to identify the server entry.

=item -newaddr

Specifies the new IP address that replaces all currently registered
addresses.

=item -remove

Removes from the VLDB the server entry that includes the address specified
by the B<-oldaddr> argument.

=item -cell

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<vos> reference page.

=item -noauth

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the
issuer. Do not combine this flag with the B<-localauth>
flag. For more details, see the introductory B<vos> reference
page.

=item -localauth

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<vos> command
interpreter presents it to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during
mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument or B<-noauth> flag. For more details,
see the introductory B<vos> reference page.

=item -verbose

Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the
command's execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings
and error messages appear.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command removes the VLDB server entry that includes the IP
address B<192.12.107.214>.

   % vos changeaddr -oldaddr 192.12.107.214 -remove

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

Issuer must be listed in the /usr/afs/etc/UserList file on the
machine specified with the B<-oldaddr> argument and on each database
server machine.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<CellServDB (client version)(1)>

L<CellServDB (server version)(1)>

L<UserList(1)>,
L<sysid(1)>,
L<fileserver(1)>,
L<pts_rename(1)>,
L<vos(1)>,
L<vos_listaddrs(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
