=head1 NAME

vos unlockvldb - Unlocks several locked VLDB entries

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<vos unlockvldb> [B<-server> <I<machine name>>]  [-partition <I<partition name>>] 
[B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-noauth>]  [B<-localauth>]
               [B<-verbose>]  [-help]

B<vos unlockv> [B<-s> <I<machine name>>]  [-p <I<partition name>>]  
[B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-v>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The vos unlockvldb command releases the lock on the Volume
Location Database (VLDB) entries indicated by the combination of arguments
provided:

=over 4

=item *

To unlock all entries in the VLDB, provide no arguments


=item *

To unlock all entries that mention a file server machine in a site
definition, provide its name with the B<-server> argument


=item *

To unlock all entries that mention a partition on any file server machine
in a site definition, provide the partition name with the
B<-partition> argument


=item *

To unlock all entries that mention a specific site, provide both the
B<-server> and B<-partition> arguments.


=back

To unlock a single volume, use the vos unlock command
instead.

=head1 CAVEATS

Do not use this command under normal circumstances.

It is useful if VLDB entries for volumes at a certain site are locked but
there is no reason to suspect inconsistency within the volume or between it
and the VLDB. Note that it is possible to list information from locked
VLDB entries, even though they cannot be manipulated in other ways.

The vos lock command locks a VLDB entry so that no one else can
perform an action that requires writing the VLDB.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -server

Identifies the file server machine for which to unlock VLDB
entries. Provide the machine's IP address or its host name (either
fully qualified or using an unambiguous abbreviation). For details, see
the introductory reference page for the B<vos> command suite.

=item -partition

Identifies the partition (on the file server machine specified by the
B<-server> argument) for which to unlock VLDB entries. Provide
the partition's complete name with preceding slash (for example,
B</vicepa>) or use one of the three acceptable abbreviated
forms. For details, see the introductory reference page for the
B<vos> command suite.

=item -cell

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<vos> reference page.

=item -noauth

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the
issuer. Do not combine this flag with the B<-localauth>
flag. For more details, see the introductory B<vos> reference
page.

=item -localauth

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<vos> command
interpreter presents it to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during
mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument or B<-noauth> flag. For more details,
see the introductory B<vos> reference page.

=item -verbose

Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the
command's execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings
and error messages appear.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command unlocks all locked entries in the VLDB.

   % vos unlockvldb

The following command unlocks all locked VLDB entries that mention the
B</vicepa> partition in a site definition.

   % vos unlockvldb -partition a

The following command unlocks all locked VLDB entries that refer to volumes
on the B</vicepc> partition of the file server machine
B<fs3.abc.com>.

   % vos unlockvldb -server fs3.abc.com -partition c

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the /usr/afs/etc/UserList file on
the machine specified with the B<-server> argument and on each
database server machine. If the B<-localauth> flag is included,
the issuer must instead be logged on to a server machine as the local
superuser B<root>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<vos(1)>,
L<vos_lock(1)>,
L<vos_unlock(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
