=head1 NAME

vos remove - Removes a volume from a site

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<vos remove> S<<< [B<-server> <I<machine name>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-partition> <I<partition name>>] >>>
    S<<< B<-id> <I<volume name or ID>> >>> S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>>
    [B<-noauth>] [B<-localauth>] [B<-verbose>] [B<-help>]

B<vos remo> S<<< [B<-s> <I<machine name>>] >>> S<<< [B<-p> <I<partition name>>] >>>
    S<<< B<-i> <I<volume name or ID>> >>> S<<< [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-n>] [B<-l>]
    [B<-v>] [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<vos remove> command removes the indicated volume from the partition
on which it resides. The Volume Location Database (VLDB) record is altered
appropriately, as described in the following paragraphs. Use this command
to remove any of the three types of volumes; the effect depends on the
type.

=over 4

=item *

If the B<-id> argument names the read/write volume (that is, specifies the
volume's base name), both it and the associated backup volume are removed
from the partition that houses them. The B<-server> and B<-partition>
arguments are optional, because there can be only one read/write
site. When the volume is removed, the site information is also removed
from the VLDB entry. The read/write and backup volume ID numbers no longer
appear in the output from the B<vos listvldb> or B<vos examine> commands,
but they are preserved internally. Read-only sites, if any, are not
affected, but cannot be changed unless a read/write site is again
defined. The site count reported by the B<vos examine> and B<vos listvldb>
commands as C<number of sites> decrements by one. The entire VLDB entry is
removed if there are no read-only sites.

=item *

If the B<-id> argument names a read-only volume, it is removed from the
partition that houses it, and the corresponding site information is
removed from the VLDB entry. The site count reported by the B<vos examine>
and B<vos listvldb> commands as C<number of sites> decrements by one for
each volume you remove. If there is more than one read-only site, the
B<-server> argument (and optionally B<-partition> argument) must be used
to specify the site from which to remove the volume. If there is only one
read-only site, the B<-id> argument is sufficient; if there is also no
read/write volume in this case, the entire VLDB entry is removed.

=item *

If the B<-id> argument names a backup volume, it is removed from the
partition that houses it. The B<-server> and B<-partition> arguments are
optional, because there can be only one backup site. The backup volume ID
number no longer appears in the output from the B<vos listvldb> command or
in the corresponding portion of the output from the B<vos examine>
command, but is preserved internally.

=back

This command is the most appropriate one for removing volumes in almost
all cases. Other commands that remove only volumes or only VLDB entries
(such as the B<vos delentry>, B<vos remsite> and B<vos zap> commands) by
definition can put the volumes and VLDB out of sync. Use them only in the
special circumstances mentioned on their reference pages. Like the B<vos
delentry> command, this command can remove a VLDB entry when no
corresponding volumes exist on the file server machine. Like the B<vos
zap> command, this command can remove a volume that does not have a VLDB
entry, as long as the volume is online, B<-server> and B<-partition>
arguments are provided, and the B<-id> argument specifies the volume's ID
number.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> <I<server name>>

Identifies the file server machine that houses the volume to remove. It is
necessary only when the B<-id> argument names a read-only volume that
exists at multiple sites. Provide the machine's IP address or its host
name (either fully qualified or using an unambiguous abbreviation). For
details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-partition> <I<partition name>>

Identifies the partition (on the file server machine specified by the
B<-server> argument) that houses the volume to remove. Provide the
partition's complete name with preceding slash (for example, C</vicepa>)
or use one of the three acceptable abbreviated forms. For details, see
L<vos(1)>.

Including this argument is necessary only when the B<-id> argument names a
read-only volume that exists at multiple sites. Provide the B<-server>
argument along with this one.

=item B<-id> <I<volume name or id>>

Identifies the volume to remove, either by its complete name or volume ID
number. If identifying a read-only or backup volume by name, include the
appropriate extension (C<.readonly> or C<.backup>).

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity C<anonymous> to the issuer. Do not
combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see
L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<vos> command interpreter presents it
to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> argument or
B<-noauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-verbose>

Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the command's
execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings and error messages
appear.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example removes the read/write volume C<user.terry> and its
backup version, if any.

   % vos remove  -id user.terry

The following example removes the read-only volume C<root.afs.readonly>
from one of its sites, the F</vicepa> partition on the file server machine
C<fs1.abc.com>.

   % vos remove fs1.abc.com  a  root.afs.readonly

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the
machine specified with the B<-server> argument and on each database server
machine. If the B<-localauth> flag is included, the issuer must instead be
logged on to a server machine as the local superuser C<root>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<vos(1)>,
L<vos_delentry(1)>,
L<vos_remsite(1)>,
L<vos_zap(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
