=head1 NAME

vos status - Reports a Volume Server's status

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<vos status -server> <I<machine name>>  [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]  [-noauth]
[B<-localauth>]  [B<-verbose>]  [B<-help>]

B<vos st -s> <I<machine name>>  [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-v>]  [-h]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The vos status command reports on what the Volume Server on a
certain file server machine is doing at the moment the command is
issued. If there is no activity, the following message appears:

   No active transactions on I<machine_name>

This command is useful mainly if there is concern that the Volume Server is
not performing requested actions.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -server
>

Identifies the file server machine running the Volume Server for which to
display status information. Provide the machine's IP address or
its host name (either fully qualified or using an unambiguous
abbreviation). For details, see the introductory reference page for the
B<vos> command suite.

=item -cell

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<vos> reference page.

=item -noauth

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the
issuer. Do not combine this flag with the B<-localauth>
flag. For more details, see the introductory B<vos> reference
page.

=item -localauth

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<vos> command
interpreter presents it to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during
mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument or B<-noauth> flag. For more details,
see the introductory B<vos> reference page.

=item -verbose

Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the
command's execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings
and error messages appear.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

There are two possible types of output.

The following message indicates that the Volume Server is not currently
performing any actions.

   No active transactions on I<machine name>

The other possible output is a set of information which is probably more
useful to programmers than to system administrators. A full
understanding of all the fields requires familiarity with the code for the
Volume Server, as many of the fields report ID numbers and flag values that
the Volume Server sets for internal use.

Among the fields of possible interest to an administrator are:

=over 4

=item *

C<created> on the first line, which indicates the time at which
this transaction started


=item *

C<attachFlags> on the second line, where a value of
C<offline> indicates that the volume is not available for other read
or write operations during this transaction


=item *

C<volume> on the third line, which specifies the affected
volume's ID number


=item *

C<partition> on the third line, which indicates where the affected
volume resides (at the beginning of the transaction if this is a move)


=item *

C<procedure> on the third line, which indicates the internal
subprocedure being executed


=back

A fourth line can appear during certain transactions, and includes the
following fields:

=over 4

=item *

C<packetRead> tracks whether information is being read into the
volume. Its absolute value is not informative, but the way it changes
shows whether the B<vos restore> command is executing properly.
As the B<vos status> command is issued repeatedly during a restore,
C<readNext> increases monotonically to indicate that information is
being read into the volume.


=item *

C<packetSend> tracks whether information is being sent out of the
volume. Its absolute value is not informative, but the way it changes
shows whether the B<vos dump> command is executing properly. As
the B<vos status> command is issued repeatedly during a dump,
C<transmitNext> increases monotonically to indicate that information
is being transferred from the volume into the dump file.


=back

The C<lastReceiveTime> and C<lastSendTime> are for internal
use.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example illustrates the kind of output that sometimes appears
when the Volume Server on B<fs1.abc.com> is executing a
dump at the time this command is issued.

   % vos status fs1.abc.com
   --------------------------------------------
   transaction: 575  created: Tue Jan 2 8:34:56 1990
   attachFlags: offline
   volume: 536871080 partition: /vicepb procedure: Dump
   packetRead: 2 lastReceiveTime: 113313 packetSend: 24588
       lastSendTime: 113317
   --------------------------------------------

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<vos(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
