=head1 NAME

vos_online - Brings a volume online

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<vos online> S<<< B<-server> <I<machine name>> >>>
    S<<< B<-partition> <I<partition name>> >>> 
    S<<< B<-id> <I<volume name or ID>> >>>
    S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>>
    [B<-noauth>] B<-localauth>]
    [B<-verbose>] [B<-encrypt>] [B<-noresolve>] [B<-help>]

B<vos on> S<<< B<-s> <I<machine name>> >>>
    S<<< B<-p> <I<partition name>> >>> 
    S<<< B<-i> <I<volume name or ID>> >>>
    S<<< [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] >>>
    [B<-noa>] B<-l>] [B<-v>] [B<-e>] [B<-nor>] [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<vos online> command brings an offline volume on line with the 
B<fileserver>.

=head1 CAUTIONS

None.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> <I<machine name>>

Identifies the file server machine where the volume resides. 
Provide the machine's IP address or its host name (either fully
qualified or using an unambiguous abbreviation). For details, see
L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-partition> <I<partition name>>

Identifies the partition where the volume resides, on the
file server machine named by the B<-server> argument. Provide the
partition's complete name with preceding slash (for example, C</vicepa>)
or use one of the three acceptable abbreviated forms. For details, see
L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-id> <I<volume name or ID>>

Specifies either the complete name or volume ID number of the volume.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. Do not combine
this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<vos> command interpreter presents it
to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> argument or
B<-noauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-verbose>

Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the command's
execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings and error messages
appear.

=item B<-encrypt>

Encrypts the command so that the operation's results are not transmitted
across the network in clear text. This option is available in OpenAFS
versions 1.4.11 or later and 1.5.60 or later.

=item B<-noresolve>

Shows all servers as IP addresses instead of the DNS name. This is very
useful when the server address is registered as 127.0.0.1 or when dealing
with multi-homed servers. This option is available in OpenAFS
versions 1.4.8 or later and 1.5.35 or later.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example brings an offline volume online:

   % vos online -server sv7.example.org -partition /vicepb -id root.afs

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the
machine specified with the B<-server> argument and on each database server
machine. If the B<-localauth> flag is included, the issuer must instead be
logged on to a server machine as the local superuser C<root>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<vos(1)>,
L<vos_offline(1)>,
L<bos_salvage(8)>,

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This man page was created by Steven Jenkins.
