=head1 NAME

vos lock - Locks a VLDB volume entry

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<vos lock -id> <I<volume name or ID>>  [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]  [-noauth] 
[B<-localauth>]  [B<-verbose>]  [B<-help>]

B<vos lo -i> <I<volume name or ID>>  [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-v>]  [-h]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The vos lock command locks the Volume Location Database (VLDB)
entry for the indicated volume, blocking any operation that requires a write
to that entry. The lock applies to all of the volume versions
associated with the entry, not just the one specified with the B<-id>
argument.

To unlock a single VLDB entry, use the vos unlock
command. To unlock several entries, or all locked entries in the VLDB,
use the B<vos unlockvldb> command.

=head1 CAVEATS

Do not use this command in normal circumstances. It is useful for
guaranteeing that the volume stays unchanged when there is reason to believe
that volume operations cannot properly lock VLDB volume entries as they
normally do to synchronize with one another.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -id

Specifies either the complete name or volume ID number of a volume of the
any of the three types.

=item -cell

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<vos> reference page.

=item -noauth

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the
issuer. Do not combine this flag with the B<-localauth>
flag. For more details, see the introductory B<vos> reference
page.

=item -localauth

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<vos> command
interpreter presents it to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during
mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument or B<-noauth> flag. For more details,
see the introductory B<vos> reference page.

=item -verbose

Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the
command's execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings
and error messages appear.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command locks the VLDB entry for
B<user.terry>.

   % vos lock user.terry

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the /usr/afs/etc/UserList file on
the machine specified with the B<-server> argument and on each
database server machine. If the B<-localauth> flag is included,
the issuer must instead be logged on to a server machine as the local
superuser B<root>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<vos(1)>,
L<vos_unlock(1)>,
L<vos_unlockvldb(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
