=head1 NAME

vos_delentry - Removes a volume entry from the VLDB.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<vos delentry> S<<< [B<-id> <I<volume name or ID>>+] >>>
    S<<< [B<-prefix> <I<prefix of volume whose VLDB entry is to be deleted>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-server> <I<machine name>>] >>> S<<< [B<-partition> <I<partition name>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-noauth>] [B<-localauth>] [B<-verbose>]
    [B<-help>]

B<vos de> S<<< [B<-i> <I<volume name or ID>>+] >>>
    S<<< [B<-pr> <I<prefix of volume whose VLDB entry is to be deleted>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-s> <I<machine name>>] >>> S<<< [B<-pa> <I<partition name>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-n>] [B<-l>] [B<-v>] [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<vos delentry> command removes the Volume Location Database (VLDB)
entry for each specified volume. A specified volume can be any of the
three types (read/write, read-only, or backup), but the entire entry is
removed no matter which type is provided. The command has no effect on the
actual volumes on file server machines, if they exist.

This command is useful if a volume removal operation did not update the
VLDB (perhaps because the B<vos zap> command was used), but the system
administrator does not feel it is necessary to use the B<vos syncserv> and
B<vos syncvldb> commands to synchronize an entire file server machine.

To remove the VLDB entry for a single volume, use the B<-id> argument. To
remove groups of volumes, combine the B<-prefix>, B<-server>, and
B<-partition> arguments. The following list describes how to remove the
VLDB entry for the indicated group of volumes:

=over 4

=item *

For every volume whose name begins with a certain character string (for
example, C<sys.> or C<user.>): use the B<-prefix> argument.

=item *

Every volume for which the VLDB lists a site on a certain file server
machine: specify the file server name with the B<-server> argument.

=item *

Every volume for which the VLDB lists a site on a partition of the same
name (for instance, on the F</vicepa> partition on any file server
machine): specify the partition name with the B<-partition> argument.

=item *

Every volume for which the VLDB lists a site one a specific partition of a
file server machine: specify both the B<-server> and B<-partition>
arguments.

=item *

Every volume whose name begins with a certain prefix and for which the
VLDB lists a site on a file server machine: combine the B<-prefix> and
B<-server> arguments. Combine the B<-prefix> argument with the
B<-partition> argument, or both the B<-server> and B<-partition>
arguments, to remove a more specific group of volumes.

=back

=head1 CAUTIONS

Do not use this command to remove a volume in normal circumstances; it
does not remove a volume from the file server machine, and so is likely to
make the VLDB inconsistent with state of the volumes on server
machines. Use the B<vos remove> command to remove both the volume and its
VLDB entry.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-id> <I<volume name or ID>>+

Specifies the complete name or the volume ID number of each volume for
which to remove the VLDB entry. The entire entry is removed, regardless of
whether the read/write, read-only, or backup version is indicated.
Provide this argument or some combination of the B<-prefix>, B<-server>,
and B<-partition> arguments.

=item B<-prefix> <I<prefix of volume entry>

Specifies a character string of any length; the VLDB entry for a volume
whose name begins with the string is removed. Include field separators
(such as periods) if appropriate. Combine this argument with the
B<-server> argument, B<-partition> argument, or both.

=item B<-server> <I<server name>>

Identifies a file server machine; if a volume's VLDB entry lists a site on
the machine, the entry is removed. Provide the machine's IP address or its
host name (either fully qualified or using an unambiguous
abbreviation). For details, see L<vos(1)>.

Combine this argument with the B<-prefix> argument, the B<-partition>
argument, or both.

=item B<-partition> <I<partition name>>

Identifies a partition; if a volume's VLDB entry lists a site on the
partition, the entry is removed. Provide the partition's complete name
with preceding slash (for example, F</vicepa>) or use one of the three
acceptable abbreviated forms. For details, see L<vos(1)>.

Combine this argument with the B<-prefix> argument, the B<-server>
argument, or both.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity C<anonymous> to the issuer. Do not
combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see
L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<vos> command interpreter presents it
to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> argument or
B<-noauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-verbose>

Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the command's
execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings and error messages
appear.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The following message confirms the success of the command by indicating
how many VLDB entries were removed.

   Deleted <number> VLDB entries

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command removes the VLDB entry for the volume C<user.temp>.

   % vos delentry user.temp

The following command removes the VLDB entry for every volume whose name
begins with the string C<test> and for which the VLDB lists a site on the
file server machine C<fs3.abc.com>.

   % vos delentry -prefix test -server fs3.abc.com

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the
machine specified with the B<-server> argument and on each database server
machine. If the B<-localauth> flag is included, the issuer must instead be
logged on to a server machine as the local superuser C<root>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<vos(1)>,
L<vos_remove(1)>,
L<vos_syncserv(1)>,
L<vos_syncvldb(1)>,
L<vos_zap(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
