=head1 NAME

vos listaddrs - Displays all VLDB server entries

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<vos listaddrs> [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] [B<-noauth>]
    [B<-localauth>] [B<-verbose>] [B<-help>]

B<vos lista> [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] [B<-n>] [B<-l>] [B<-v>] [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<vos listaddrs> command displays all of the server entries from the
Volume Location Database (VLDB). An entry is created as the File Server
initializes and registers the contents of its F</usr/afs/local/sysid> file
in the VLDB.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. Do not combine
this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<vos> command interpreter presents it
to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> argument or
B<-noauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-verbose>

Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the command's
execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings and error messages
appear.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output displays all server entries from the VLDB, each on its own
line. If a file server machine is multihomed, all of its registered
addresses appear on the line. The first one is the one reported as a
volume's site in the output from the B<vos examine> and B<vos listvldb>
commands.

The VLDB records IP addresses, and the command interpreter has the local
name service (either a process like the Domain Name Service or a local
host table) translate them to hostnames before displaying them. If an IP
address appears in the output, it is not possible to translate it.

The existence of an entry does not necessarily indicate that the machine
that is still an active file server machine. To remove obsolete server
entries, use the B<vos changeaddr> command with the B<-remove> argument.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command displays the VLDB server entries in the ABC
Corporation cell:

   % vos listaddrs
   sv5.abc.com
   sv1.abc.com
   sv2.abc.com  afs2.abc.com
   sv6.abc.com

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<sysid(5)>,
L<vos(1)>,
L<vos_changeaddr(1)>,
L<vos_examine(1)>,
L<vos_listvldb(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
