=head1 NAME

vos remsite - Removes a read-only site definition from a VLDB entry

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<vos remsite -server> <I<machine name>>  -partition <I<partition name>> 
B<-id> <I<volume name or ID>>  [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-noauth>] 
            [B<-localauth>]  [B<-verbose>]  [-help]

B<vos rems -s> <I<machine name>>  B<-p> <I<partition name>>  -i <I<volume name or ID>>  
[B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-v>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The vos remsite command removes the read-only replication site
specified by the B<-machine> and B<-partition> arguments from
the Volume Location Database (VLDB) entry for the indicated volume, which is
read/write.

This command is useful for removing read-only sites that were mistakenly
created with the B<vos addsite> command, before the B<vos
release> command actually releases them. If a read-only copy
already exists at the site, it is not affected. However, if this
read-only site was the last site housing any version of the volume, then the
entire VLDB entry is removed, even if a copy of the read-only version still
actually exists at the site. The VL Server does not correct the
discrepancy until the B<vos syncserv> and B<vos syncvldb>
commands are run.

=head1 CAVEATS

Do not use this command as the standard way to remove a read-only volume,
because it can create a discrepancy between the VLDB and the volumes on file
server machines. Use the B<vos remove> command instead.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -server

Specifies the file server machine portion of the site definition to
remove. Provide the machine's IP address or its host name (either
fully qualified or using an unambiguous abbreviation). For details, see
the introductory reference page for the B<vos> command suite.

=item -partition

Specifies the partition name portion of the site definition to
remove. Provide the partition's complete name with preceding slash
(for example, B</vicepa>) or use one of the three acceptable
abbreviated forms. For details, see the introductory reference page for
the B<vos> command suite.

=item -id

Specifies either the complete name or volume ID number of the read/write
volume to remove.

=item -cell

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<vos> reference page.

=item -noauth

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the
issuer. Do not combine this flag with the B<-localauth>
flag. For more details, see the introductory B<vos> reference
page.

=item -localauth

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<vos> command
interpreter presents it to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during
mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument or B<-noauth> flag. For more details,
see the introductory B<vos> reference page.

=item -verbose

Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the
command's execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings
and error messages appear.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command removes the mistakenly defined read-only site
B</viceph> on the file server machine
B<fs5.abc.com> from the VLDB entry for the volume
B<root.cell>.

   % vos remsite -server fs5.abc.com -partition h -id root.cell

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the /usr/afs/etc/UserList file on
the machine specified with the B<-server> argument and on each
database server machine. If the B<-localauth> flag is included,
the issuer must instead be logged on to a server machine as the local
superuser B<root>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<vos(1)>,
L<vos_delentry(1)>,
L<vos_remove(1)>,
L<vos_zap(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
