=head1 NAME

vos_backup - Creates a backup volume for a single read/write volume

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<vos backup> S<<< B<-id> <I<volume name or ID>> >>> S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>>
    [B<-noauth>] [B<-localauth>] [B<-verbose>] [B<-help>]

B<vos backup> S<<< B<-i> <I<volume name or ID>> >>> [B<-c><I<cell name>>]
    [B<-n>] [B<-l>] [B<-v>] [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<vos backup> command clones the indicated read/write volume to create
a backup version, placing it at the same site as the read/write
version. The backup volume's name is the same as the read/write source's
with the addition of the C<.backup> extension. Its volume ID number is the
one allocated for it in the Volume Location Database (VLDB) when the
read/write source was created with the B<vos create> command. If a backup
version already exists, the new clone replaces it.

To create a backup version of multiple volumes, use the B<vos backupsys>
command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-id> <I<volume name or ID>>

Specifies either the complete name or volume ID number of the read/write
source volume.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the issuer. Do not combine
this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<vos> command interpreter presents it
to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> argument or
B<-noauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-verbose>

Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the command's
execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings and error messages
appear.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The following message confirms that the command succeeded:

   Created backup volume for I<volume name>

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example creates a backup version of the volume
C<user.smith>.

   % vos backup user.smith
   Created backup volume for user.smith

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the
machine specified with the B<-server> argument and on each database server
machine. If the B<-localauth> flag is included, the issuer must instead be
logged on to a server machine as the local superuser C<root>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<vos(1)>,
L<vos_backupsys(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
