=head1 NAME

vos changeloc - Change a volume's entry in the VLDB

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<vos changeloc> S<<< [B<-server>] <I<new server name>> >>>
   S<<< [B<-partition>] <I<new partition location>> >>>
   S<<< [B<-id>] <I<volume name or ID>> >>>
   S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-noauth>] [B<-localauth>]
   [B<-verbose>] [B<-encrypt>] [B<-help>]

B<vos changel> S<<< [B<-s>] <I<new server name>> >>>
   S<<< [B<-p>] <I<new partition location>> >>>
   S<<< [B<-i>] <I<volume name or ID>> >>>
   S<<< [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-n>] [B<-l>] [B<-v>] [B<-e>] [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<vos changeloc> command changes the location of a volume in the
Volume Location Database (VLDB) without needing to contact the original
file server on which the volume was hosted. This is useful when a file
server has gone down permanently and the data that was stored on that
server has been moved to a new file server with a different name and IP
address (perhaps by mounting the same /vicepX partitions on a different
host). After moving the data and running B<vos changeloc>, run B<vos
syncvldb> and then B<vos syncserv> against the new server to ensure full
synchronization of the VLDB with the file server.

In essence, B<vos changeloc> performs the same operations on the VLDB as
B<vos move>, but it does NOT move the data from one server's file system
to another.

=head1 CAUTIONS

Using B<vos changeloc> changes the VLDB without modifying the file server
data, so it inherently causes the VLDB to be out of sync with the data on
the servers. It should only be used when recovering from server failure.
If the servers are on-line, B<vos move> should be used instead. It is
highly recommended that B<vos syncvldb> and B<vos syncserv> be run after
using the B<vos changeloc> command to ensure properly synchronization of
the VLDB with the file servers.

=head1 OPTIONS

B<vos changeloc> takes the following options:

=over 4

=item B<-server> <I<new server name>>

Specifies the new server where the VLDB should believe the volume resides.
Provide the machine's IP address or its host name (either fully qualified
or using an unambiguous abbreviation). For details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-partition> <I<partition name>>

Specifies the partition where the VLDB should believe the volume resides.
entries. Provide the B<-server> argument along with this one. Provide the
partition's complete name with preceding slash (for example, C</vicepa>)
or use one of the three acceptable abbreviated forms. For details, see
L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-id> <I<volume name or ID>>

Specifies the name or volume ID number on which to operate.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity C<anonymous> to the issuer. Do not
combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see
L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<vos> command interpreter presents it
to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> argument or
B<-noauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-verbose>

Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the command's
execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings and error messages
appear.

=item B<-encrypt>

Encrypts the commands that are sent to the server.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

B<vos changeloc> shows a brief message upon completion:

   Changed location to server2 /vicepa for volume user.jdoe

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command changes the location of the C<user.jdoe> volume to
be F</vicepa> on the file server machine C<server2> while being verbose:

   % vos changeloc server2 a user.jdoe -verbose
    done
   Changed location to server2 /vicepa for volume user.jdoe

The following command changes the location of the C<user.jdoe> volume to
be F</vicepa> on C<server1> without being verbose:

   % vos changeloc server1 a user.jdoe
   Changed location to server1 /vicepa for volume user.jdoe

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on each
database server machine. If the B<-localauth> flag is included, the issuer
must instead be logged on to a server machine as the local superuser
C<root>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<vos(1)>,
L<vos_move(1)>,
L<vos_syncserv(1)>,
L<vos_syncvldb(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007 Jason Edgecombe <jason@rampaginggeek.com>

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0. This
man page was written by Jason Edgecombe for OpenAFS.
