=head1 NAME

vos examine - Shows volume header and VLDB entry information for a volume

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<vos examine> B<-id> <I<volume name or ID>> [B<-extended>]
    [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] [B<-noauth>] [B<-localauth>] [B<-verbose>]
    [B<-help>]

B<vos e> B<-i> <I<volume name or ID>> [B<-e>] [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]
    [B<-n>] [B<-l>] [B<-v>] [B<-h>]

B<vos volinfo> B<-i> <I<volume name or ID>> [B<-e>] [-c <I<cell name>>]
    [B<-n>] [B<-l>] [B<-v>] [B<-h>]

B<vos v> B<-i> <I<volume name or ID>> [B<-e>] [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]
    [B<-n>] [B<-l>] [B<-v>] [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<vos examine> command formats and displays information from the
Volume Location Database (VLDB) entry and the volume header of the volume
specified by the B<-id> argument.

To display the volume header only, use the B<vos listvol> command. To
display information from the VLDB only, use the B<vos listvldb> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-id> <I<volume name or ID>>

Specifies either the complete name or volume ID number of the volume,
which can be read/write, read-only, or backup.

=item B<-extended>

Display statistics about read and write operations on files and
directories in the volume.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity C<anonymous> to the issuer. Do not
combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see
L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<vos> command interpreter presents it
to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> argument or
B<-noauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-verbose>

Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the command's
execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings and error messages
appear.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The first seven lines of the output show information from the volume
header and the remaining lines come from the VLDB. Each item in the
following list corresponds to a line of output derived from the volume
header.

=over 4

=item *

Basic information about the specified volume (displayed on a single
line):

=over 4

=item *

Name

=item *

Volume ID number

=item *

Type (the flag is C<RW> for read/write, C<RO> for read-only, C<BK> for
backup)

=item *

Size in kilobytes (C<1024> equals a megabyte)

=item *

Number of files in the volume, if the B<-extended> flag is provided

=item *

Status on the file server machine, which is one of the following:

=over 4

=item On-line

The volume is completely accessible to Cache Managers.

=item Off-line

The volume is not accessible to Cache Managers, but does not seem to be
corrupted. This status appears while a volume is being dumped, for
example.

=item Off-line**needs salvage**

The volume is not accessible to Cache Managers, because it seems to be
corrupted. Use the B<bos salvage> or B<salvager> command to repair the
corruption.

=back

=back

=item *

The file server machine and partition that house the volume, as determined
by the command interpreter as the command runs, rather than derived from
the VLDB or the volume header.

=item *

The volume ID numbers associated with the various versions of the volume:
read/write (C<RWrite>), read-only (C<ROnly>), backup (C<Backup>), and
ReleaseClone (C<RClone>). One of them matches the volume ID number that
appears on the first line of the volume's output. If the value in the
C<RWrite>, C<ROnly>, or C<Backup> field is C<0> (zero), there is no volume
of that type. If there is currently no ReleaseClone, the C<RClone> field
does not appear at all.

=item *

The maximum space quota allotted to the read/write copy of the volume,
expressed in kilobyte blocks in the C<MaxQuota> field.

=item *

The date and time the volume was created, in the C<Creation> field. If the
volume has been restored with the B<backup diskrestore>, B<backup
volrestore>, or B<vos restore> command, this is the restore time.

=item *

The date and time when the contents of the volume last changed, in the
C<Last Update> field. For read-only and backup volumes, it matches the
timestamp in the C<Creation> field.

=item *

The number of times the volume has been accessed for a fetch or store
operation since the later of the two following times:

=over 4

=item *

12:00 a.m. on the day the command is issued

=item *

The last time the volume changed location

=back

=back

When the B<-extended> flag is included, two tables appear next:

=over 4

=item *

The table labeled C<Raw Read/Write Stats> contains information on the
number of reads (fetches) and writes (stores) made on the specified
volume.

=item *

The table labeled C<Writes Affecting Authorship> contains information on
writes made to files and directories in the specified volume.

=back

If the following message appears instead of the previously listed
information, it indicates that a volume is not accessible to Cache
Managers or the B<vos> command interpreter, for example because a clone is
being created.

   **** Volume <volume_ID> is busy ****

If the following message appears instead of the previously listed
information, it indicates that the File Server is unable to attach the
volume, perhaps because it is seriously corrupted. The F<FileLog> and
F<VolserLog> log files in the F</usr/afs/logs> directory on the file
server machine possibly provide additional information; use the B<bos
getlog> command to display them.

   **** Could not attach volume <volume_ID> ****

Following a blank line, information from the VLDB entry appears.  Each
item in this list corresponds to a separate line in the output:

=over 4

=item *

The base (read/write) volume name. The read-only and backup versions have
the same name with a C<.readonly> and C<.backup> extension, respectively.

=item *

The volume ID numbers allocated to the versions of the volume that
actually exist, in fields labeled C<RWrite> for the read/write, C<ROnly>
for the read-only, C<Backup> for the backup, and C<RClone> for the
ReleaseClone. (If a field does not appear, the corresponding version of
the volume does not exist.) The appearance of the C<RClone> field normally
indicates that a release operation did not complete successfully; the
C<Old release> and C<New release> flags often also appear on one or more
of the site definition lines described just following.

=item *

The number of sites that house a read/write or read-only copy of the
volume, following the string C<< number of sites -> >>.

=item *

A line for each site that houses a read/write or read-only copy of the
volume, specifying the file server machine, partition, and type of volume
(C<RW> for read/write or C<RO> for read-only). If a backup version exists,
it is understood to share the read/write site.  Several flags can appear
with a site definition:

=over 4

=item Not released

Indicates that the vos release command has not been issued since the B<vos
addsite> command was used to define the read-only site.

=item Old release

Indicates that a vos release command did not complete successfully,
leaving the previous, obsolete version of the volume at this site.

=item New release

Indicates that a vos release command did not complete successfully, but
that this site did receive the correct new version of the volume.

=back

=item *

If the VLDB entry is locked, the string C<Volume is currently LOCKED>.

=back

For further discussion of the C<New release> and C<Old release> flags, see
L<vos_release(1)>.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows output for the ABC Corporation volume called
C<usr> with two read-only replication sites (this volume is mounted at the
F</afs/abc.com/usr> directory). For the sake of illustration, the output
shows the volume as locked.

   % vos examine usr
   usr                           536870981 RW   3459 K On-line
        fs2.abc.com /vicepb
        RWrite 5360870981   ROnly 536870982   Backup 536870983
        MaxQuota      40000 K
        Creation    Mon Jun 12 15:22:06 1989
        Last Update Fri Jun 16 09:34:35 1989
        5719 accesses in the past day (i.e., vnode references)
        RWrite: 5360870981   ROnly: 536870982   Backup: 536870983
        number of sites -> 3
           server fs1.abc.com partition /vicepa RO Site
           server fs3.abc.com partition /vicepa RO Site
           server fs2.abc.com partition /vicepb RW Site
        Volume is currently LOCKED

The following example shows the output for the volume C<user.terry> using
the B<-extended> flag. The volume has no read-only replication sites.

   % vos examine -id user.terry -extended
   user.terry         354287190 RW    2302 K used 119 files On-line
       fs4.abc.com /vicepc
       RWrite 354287190 ROnly          0 Backup 354287192
       MaxQuota       5000 K
       Creation    Wed Nov 25 17:38:57 1992
       Last Update Tue Dec 15 10:46:20 1992
       598 accesses in the past day (i.e., vnode references)
                         Raw Read/Write Stats
             |-------------------------------------------|
             |    Same Network     |    Diff Network     |
             |----------|----------|----------|----------|
             |  Total   |   Auth   |   Total  |   Auth   |
             |----------|----------|----------|----------|
   Reads     |       55 |       55 |       38 |       38 |
   Writes    |       95 |       95 |        0 |        0 |
             |-------------------------------------------|
                      Writes Affecting Authorship
             |-------------------------------------------|
             |   File Authorship   | Directory Authorship|
             |----------|----------|----------|----------|
             |   Same   |   Diff   |    Same  |   Diff   |
             |----------|----------|----------|----------|
   0-60 sec  |       38 |        0 |       21 |        1 |
   1-10 min  |        2 |        0 |        7 |        0 |
   10min-1hr |        0 |        0 |        1 |        0 |
   1hr-1day  |        1 |        0 |        5 |        1 |
   1day-1wk  |        0 |        0 |        0 |        0 |
   > 1wk     |        0 |        0 |        0 |        0 |
             |-------------------------------------------|
       RWrite: 354287190    Backup: 354287192
       number of sites -> 1
          server fs4.abc.com partition /vicepc RW Site

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup_diskrestore(8)>,
L<backup_volrestore(8)>,
L<bos_getlog(8)>,
L<bos_salvage(8)>,
L<salvager(8)>,
L<vos(1)>,
L<vos_listvol(1)>,
L<vos_listvldb(1)>,
L<vos_release(1)>,
L<vos_restore(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
