=head1 NAME

vos listpart - Displays all AFS partitions on a file server machine

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<vos listpart -server> <I<machine name>>  [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]  [-noauth]
[B<-localauth>]  [B<-verbose>]  [B<-help>]

B<vos listp -s> <I<machine name>>  [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-v>]  [-h]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The vos listpart command displays all of the valid AFS
partitions on the indicated file server machine, without consulting the Volume
Location Database (VLDB). The B<vos partinfo> command reports
the size of a partition and the available space on that partition.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -server

Identifies the file server machine for which to list the
partitions. Provide the machine's IP address or its host name
(either fully qualified or using an unambiguous abbreviation). For
details, see the introductory reference page for the B<vos> command
suite.

=item -cell

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<vos> reference page.

=item -noauth

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the
issuer. Do not combine this flag with the B<-localauth>
flag. For more details, see the introductory B<vos> reference
page.

=item -localauth

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<vos> command
interpreter presents it to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during
mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument or B<-noauth> flag. For more details,
see the introductory B<vos> reference page.

=item -verbose

Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the
command's execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings
and error messages appear.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output consists of a list of partition names of the form
B</vicep>I<xx>, following the header:

   The partitions on the server are:

The last line of the output reports the total number of partitions.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command displays the partitions on
B<fs1.abc.com>:

   % vos listpart fs1.abc.com
   The partitions on the server are:
       /vicepa     /vicepb     /vicepc     /vicepd
   Total:  4

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<vos(1)>,
L<vos_partinfo(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
