=head1 NAME

vos rename - Renames a volume

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<vos rename -oldname> <I<old volume name>>  -newname <I<new volume name>> 
[B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-noauth>]  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-verbose>]  [B<-help>]

B<vos ren -o> <I<old volume name>>  B<-ne> <I<new volume name>>  [-c <I<cell name>>]
[B<-no>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-v>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The vos rename command changes the name of the read/write volume
specified with the B<-oldname> argument to the name specified with the
B<-newname> argument. The names of the read/write's
read-only copies and backup copy, if any, change automatically to
match.

After issuing this command, remember to correct any mount points that refer
to the old volume name, by removing the old mount point with the B<fs
rmmount> command and creating a new one with the B<fs mkmount>
command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -oldname

Is the current name of the read/write volume.

=item -newname

Is the desired new name for the volume.

=item -cell

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<vos> reference page.

=item -noauth

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the
issuer. Do not combine this flag with the B<-localauth>
flag. For more details, see the introductory B<vos> reference
page.

=item -localauth

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<vos> command
interpreter presents it to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during
mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument or B<-noauth> flag. For more details,
see the introductory B<vos> reference page.

=item -verbose

Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the
command's execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings
and error messages appear.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The vos rename command produces no output if the command
succeeds.

If the volume named by the -oldname argument does not exist, the
following message appears:

   vos: Could not find entry for volume I<old volume name>.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example changes the mistaken volume name
B<sun4x_56.afsws> to the correct alternative
C<sun4x_56.usr.afsws>.

   % vos rename -oldname sun4x_56.afsws -newname sun4x_56.usr.afsws

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the /usr/afs/etc/UserList file on
the machine specified with the B<-server> argument and on each
database server machine. If the B<-localauth> flag is included,
the issuer must instead be logged on to a server machine as the local
superuser B<root>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<vos(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
