=head1 NAME

xstat_cm_test - Displays data collections from the Cache Manager

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<xstat_cm_test> [I<initcmd>]
    S<<< B<-cmname> <I<cache manager name(s) to monitor>>+ >>>
    S<<< B<-collID> <I<collection(s) to fetch>>+ >>> [B<-onceonly>]
    S<<< [B<-frequency> <I<poll frequency, in seconds>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-period> <I<data collection time, in minutes>>] >>> [B<-debug>]
    [B<-help>]

B<xstat_cm_test> [I<i>] S<<< B<-cm> <I<cache manager name(s) to monitor>>+ >>>
    S<<< B<-co> <I<collection(s) to fetch>>+ >>> [B<-o>]
    S<<< [B<-f> <I<poll frequency, in seconds>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-p> <I<data collection time, in minutes>>] >>> [B<-d>] [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<xstat_cm_test> command tests the routines in the F<libxstat_cm.a>
library and displays the data collections associated with the Cache
Manager. The command executes in the foreground.

The command produces a large volume of output; to save it for later
analysis, direct it to a file.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item I<initcmd>

Accommodates the command's use of the AFS command parser, and is optional.

=item B<-cmname> <I<cache manager name to monitor>>+

Specifies the fully qualified hostname of each client machine for which to
monitor the Cache Manager.

=item B<-collID> <I<collection to fetch>>+

Specifies each data collection to return, which defines the type and
amount of data the command interpreter gathers about the Cache Manager.
Data is returned in a predefined data structure.

There are three acceptable values:

=over 4

=item 0

Provides profiling information about the numbers of times different
internal Cache Manager routines were called since the Cache Manager
started.

=item 1

Reports various internal performance statistics related to the Cache
Manager (for example, statistics about how effectively the cache is being
used and the quantity of intracell and intercell data access).

=item 2

Reports all of the internal performance statistics provided by the C<1>
setting, plus some additional, detailed performance figures (for example,
statistics about the number of RPCs sent by the Cache Manager and how long
they take to complete, and statistics regarding authentication, access,
and PAG information associated with data access).

=back

=item B<-onceonly>

Gathers statistics just one time. Omit this flag to have the command
continue to probe the Cache Manager for statistics at the frequency
specified by the B<-frequency> argument; in this case press Ctrl-C to stop
the probes.

=item B<-frequency> <I<poll frequency>>

Sets the frequency in seconds at which the program initiates probes to the
Cache Manager. The default is 30 seconds.

=item B<-period> <I<data collection time>>

Sets the number of minutes the program runs; at the end of this period of
time, the program exits. The default is 10 minutes.

=item B<-debug>

Displays a trace on the standard output stream as the command runs.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<xstat_fs_test(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
