=head1 NAME

backup status - Reports a Tape Coordinator's status

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<backup status> [-portoffset <I<TC port offset>>]
[B<-localauth>]  [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-help>]

B<backup st> [B<-p> <I<TC port offset>>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [-h]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The backup status command displays which operation, if any, the
indicated Tape Coordinator is currently executing.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -portoffset

Specifies the port offset number of the Tape Coordinator for which to
report the status.

=item -localauth

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<backup> command
interpreter presents it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server
during mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument. For more details, see the introductory
B<backup> reference page.

=item -cell

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<backup> reference page.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The following message indicates that the Tape Coordinator is not currently
performing an operation:

   Tape coordinator is idle

Otherwise, the output includes a message of the following format for each
running or pending operation:

   Task I<task_ID>:  I<operation>:   I<status>

where

=over 4

=item I<task_ID
>

Is a task identification number assigned by the Tape Coordinator.
It begins with the Tape Coordinator's port offset number.

=item I<operation
>

Identifies the operation the Tape Coordinator is performing, which is
initiated by the indicated command:

=over 4

=item *

C<Dump> (the backup dump command)


=item *

C<Restore> (the B<backup diskrestore>, backup
volrestore, or B<backup volsetrestore> commands)


=item *

C<Labeltape> (the backup labeltape command)


=item *

C<Scantape> (the backup scantape command)


=item *

C<SaveDb> (the backup savedb command)


=item *

C<RestoreDb> (the backup restoredb command)


=back

=item I<status
>

Indicates the job's current status in one of the following
messages. 

=over 4

=item I<number C<Kbytes transferred, volume> I<volume_name>
>

For a running dump operation, indicates the number of kilobytes copied to
tape or a backup data file so far, and the volume currently being
dumped.

=item I<number C<Kbytes, restore.volume>
>

For a running restore operation, indicates the number of kilobytes copied
into AFS from a tape or a backup data file so far.

=item C<[abort requested]
>

The (backup) kill command was issued, but the termination
signal has yet to reach the Tape Coordinator.

=item C<[abort sent]
>

The operation is canceled by the (backup) kill command.
Once the Backup System removes an operation from the queue or stops it from
running, it no longer appears at all in the output from the command.

=item C<[butc contact lost]
>

The backup command interpreter cannot reach the Tape
Coordinator. The message can mean either that the Tape Coordinator
handling the operation was terminated or failed while the operation was
running, or that the connection to the Tape Coordinator timed out.

=item C<[done]
>

The Tape Coordinator has finished the operation.

=item C<[drive wait]
>

The operation is waiting for the specified tape drive to become
free.

=item C<[operator wait]
>

The Tape Coordinator is waiting for the backup operator to insert a tape
in the drive.

=back

=back

If the Tape Coordinator is communicating with an XBSA server (a third-party
backup utility that implements the Open Group's Backup Service API
[XBSA]), the following message appears last in the output:

   I<XBSA_program> Tape coordinator

where I<XBSA_program> is the name of the XBSA-compliant
program.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows that the Tape Coordinator with port offset 4
has so far dumped about 1.5 MB of data for the current dump operation,
and is currently dumping the volume named
B<user.pat.backup>:

   % backup status -portoffset 4
   Task 4001:  Dump:   1520 Kbytes transferred,  volume user.pat.backup

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the /usr/afs/etc/UserList file on
every machine where the Backup Server is running, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser B<root> if the
B<-localauth> flag is included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(1)>,
L<butc(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
