=head1 NAME

backup_setexp - Sets the expiration date for existing dump levels.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<backup setexp> S<<< B<-dump> <I<dump level name>>+ >>>
    S<<< [B<-expires> <I<expiration date>>+] >>> [B<-localauth>]
    S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-help>]

B<backup se> S<<< B<-d> <I<dump level name>>+ >>> S<<< [B<-e> <I<expiration date>>+] >>>
    [B<-l>] S<<< [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<backup setexp> command sets or changes the expiration date
associated with each specified dump level, which must already exist in the
dump hierarchy.

Use the B<-expires> argument to associate an expiration date with each
dump level. When the Backup System subsequently creates a dump at the dump
level, it uses the specified value to derive the dump's expiration date,
which it records on the label of the tape (or backup data file). The
Backup System refuses to overwrite a tape until after the latest
expiration date of any dump that the tape contains, unless the B<backup
labeltape> command is used to relabel the tape. If a dump level does not
have an expiration date, the Backup System treats dumps created at the
level as expired as soon as it creates them.

(Note that the Backup System does not automatically remove a dump's record
from the Backup Database when the dump reaches its expiration date, but
only if the tape that contains the dump is recycled or relabeled. To
remove expired and other obsolete dump records, use the B<backup
deletedump> command.)

Define either an absolute or relative expiration date:

=over 4

=item *

An absolute expiration date defines the month/day/year (and, optionally,
hour and minutes) at which a dump expires. If the expiration date predates
the dump creation time, the Backup System immediately treats the dump as
expired.

=item *

A relative date defines the number of years, months, or days (or a
combination of the three) after the dump's creation that it expires. When
the Backup System creates a dump at the dump level, it calculates an
actual expiration date by adding the relative date to the start time of
the dump operation.

=back

If the command is used to change an existing expiration date associated
with a dump level, the new date applies only to dumps created after the
change. Existing dumps retain the expiration date assigned at the time
they were created.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-dump> <I<dump level name>>+

Specifies the full pathname of each dump level to assign the expiration
date specified by the B<-expires> argument.

=item B<-expires> <I<expiration date>>+

Defines the absolute or relative expiration date to associate with each
dump level named by the B<-dump> argument. Absolute expiration dates have
the following format:

   [at] {NEVER | <mm>/<dd>/<yyyy> [<hh>:<MM>] }

where the optional word at is followed either by the string C<NEVER>,
which indicates that dumps created at the dump level never expire, or by a
date value with a required portion (<mm> for month, <dd> for day, and
<yyyy> for year) and an optional portion (<hh> for hours and <MM> for
minutes).

Omit the <hh>:<MM> portion to use the default of midnight (00:00 hours),
or provide a value in 24-hour format (for example, C<20:30> is 8:30 p.m.).
Valid values for the year range from C<1970> to C<2037>; higher values are
not valid because the latest possible date in the standard UNIX
representation is in February 2038. The command interpreter automatically
reduces later dates to the maximum value.

Relative expiration dates have the following format:

   [in] [<years>y] [<months>m] [<days>d]

where the optional word in is followed by at least one of a number of
years (maximum C<9999>) followed by the letter C<y>, a number of months
(maximum C<12>) followed by the letter C<m>, or a number of days (maximum
C<31>) followed by the letter C<d>. If providing more than one of the
three, list them in the indicated order. If the date that results from
adding the relative expiration value to a dump's creation time is later
than the latest possible date in the UNIX time representation, the Backup
System automatically reduces it to that date.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<backup> command interpreter presents
it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> argument. For
more details, see L<backup(8)>.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<backup(8)>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example associates an absolute expiration date of 10:00
p.m. on 31 December 1999 with the dump level C</1998/december>:

   % backup setexp -dump /1998/december -expires at 12/31/1999 22:00

The following example associates a relative expiration date of 7 days with
the two dump levels C</monthly/week1> and C</monthly/week2>:

   % backup setexp -dump /monthly/week1 /monthly/week -expires 7d

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on every
machine where the Backup Server is running, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser C<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(8)>,
L<backup_adddump(8)>,
L<backup_deldump(8)>,
L<backup_listdumps(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
