=head1 NAME

backup volrestore - Restores one or more volumes

=head1 SYNOPSIS

backup volrestore -server <I<destination machine>>
B<-partition> <I<destination partition>>
                  -volume <I<volume(s) to restore>>+  
                  [-extension <I<new volume name extension>>]
                  [-date <I<date from which to restore>>+]
                  [B<-portoffset> <I<TC port offsets>>+]  [-n]
                  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]  [-help]

B<backup volr -s> <I<destination machine>>  -pa <I<destination partition>>
B<-v> <I<volume(s) to restore>>+  [B<-e> <I<new volume name extension>>]
            [B<-d> <I<date from which to restore>>+]  [-po <I<TC port offsets>>+]
            [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [-h]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The backup volrestore command restores the contents of one or
more volumes to the site indicated by the B<-server> and
B<-partition> arguments. Use the command either to overwrite
the contents of existing volumes with the restored data or to create new
volumes while retaining the existing ones. The specified site does not
have to be the current site for the volumes.

(If the FILE YES instruction appears in the
B</usr/afs/backup/CFG_>I<device_name> file associated with the
specified port offset, then the B<backup volrestore> command restores
data from the backup data file listed for that port offset in the Tape
Coordinator's B</usr/afs/backup/tapeconfig> file, rather than
from tape. For the sake of clarity, the following text refers to tapes
only, but the Backup System handles backup data files in much the same
way.)

The command's arguments can be combined as indicated:

=over 4

=item *

To preserve a volume's current contents and also create a new volume
to house the restored version, use the B<-extension> argument.
The Backup System creates the new volume on the server and partition named by
the B<-server> and B<-partition> arguments, assigns it the
same name as the current volume with the addition of the specified extension,
and creates a new Volume Location Database (VLDB) entry for it.
Creating a new volume enables the administrator to compare the two
versions.


=item *

To overwrite a volume's existing contents with the restored version,
omit the B<-extension> argument, and specify the site as
indicated: 


=over 4

=item *

To retain the current site, specify it with the -server and
B<-partition> arguments.


=item *

To move the volume to a different site while overwriting it, specify the
new site with the B<-server> argument, B<-partition> argument,
or both. The Backup System creates a new volume at that site, removes
the existing volume, and updates the site information in the volume's
VLDB entry. The backup version of the volume is not removed
automatically from the original site, if it exists. Use the B<vos
remove> command to remove it and the B<vos backup> command to
create a backup version at the new site.


=back

=item *

To restore a volume that no longer exists in the file system, specify its
name with the B<-volume> argument and use the B<-server> and
B<-partition> arguments to place it at the desired site. The
Backup System creates a new volume and new VLDB entry.


=back

In each case, the command sets each volume's creation date to the date
and time at which it restores it. The creation date appears in the
C<Creation> field in the output from the B<vos examine> and
B<vos listvol> commands.

If restoring all of the volumes that resided on a single partition, it is
usually more efficient to use the B<backup diskrestore>
command. If restoring multiple volumes to many different sites, it can
be more efficient to use the B<backup volsetrestore> command.

By default, the backup volrestore command restores the most
recent full dump and all subsequent incremental dumps for each volume,
bringing the restored volumes to the most current possible state. To
restore the volumes to their state at some time in the past, use the
B<-date> argument. The Backup System restores the most recent
full dump and each subsequent incremental dump for which the I<clone
date> of the volume included in the dump is before the indicated date and
time (the clone date timestamp appears in the C<clone date> field of
the output from the B<backup volinfo> command). For backup and
read-only volumes, the clone date represents the time at which the volume was
copied from its read/write source; for read/write volumes, it represents
the time at which the volume was locked for inclusion in the dump. The
resemblance of a restored volume to its actual state at the indicated time
depends on the amount of time that elapsed between the volume's clone
date in the last eligible dump and the specified time.

If the -volume argument specifies the base (read/write) form of
the volume name, the Backup System searches the Backup Database for the newest
dump set that includes a dump of either the read/write or the backup version
of the volume. It restores the dumps of that version of the volume,
starting with the most recent full dump. If, in contrast, the volume
name explicitly includes the B<.backup> or
B<.readonly> extension, the Backup System restores dumps of the
corresponding volume version only.

To generate a list of the tapes the Backup System needs to perform the
restore operation, without actually performing it, combine the B<-n>
flag with the options to be used on the actual command.

If all of the full and incremental dumps of all relevant volumes were not
written to a type of tape that a single Tape Coordinator can read, use the
B<-portoffset> argument to list multiple port offset numbers in the
order in which the tapes are needed (first list the port offset for the full
dump, second the port offset for the level 1 incremental dump, and so
on). If restoring multiple volumes, the same ordered list of port
offsets must apply to all of them. If not, either issue this command
separately for each volume, or use the B<vos volsetrestore> command
after defining groups of volumes that were dumped to compatible tape
types. For further discussion, see the I<IBM AFS Administration
Guide>.

The Tape Coordinator's default response to this command is to access
the first tape it needs by invoking the B<MOUNT> instruction in the
local B</usr/afs/backup/CFG_>I<device_name> file, or by
prompting the backup operator to insert the tape if there is no
B<MOUNT> instruction. However, if the B<AUTOQUERY NO>
instruction appears in the B<CFG_>I<device_name> file, or if the
issuer of the B<butc> command included the B<-noautoquery>
flag, the Tape Coordinator instead expects the tape to be in the device
already. If it is not, or is the wrong tape, the Tape Coordinator
invokes the B<MOUNT> instruction or prompts the operator. It
also invokes the B<MOUNT> instruction or prompts for any additional
tapes needed to complete the restore operation; the backup operator must
arrange to provide them.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -server

Names the file server machine on which to restore each volume. If
this argument and the B<-partition> argument indicate a site other
than the current site for each volume, and the B<-extension> argument
is not also provided, the Backup System removes the existing volumes from
their current sites, places the restored contents at the specified site, and
changes the site information in the volume's VLDB entry.

=item -partition

Names the partition to which to restore each volume. If this
argument and the B<-server> argument indicate a site other than the
current site for each volume, and the B<-extension> argument is not
also provided, the Backup System removes the existing volumes from their
current sites, places the restored contents at the specified site, and changes
the site information in the volume's VLDB entry.

=item -volume

Names one or more volumes to restore, using the volume name as listed in
the Backup Database. Provide the base (read/write) name of each volume
to have the Backup System search the Backup Database for the newest dump set
that includes a dump of either the read/write or the backup version of the
volume; it restores the dumps of that version of the volume, starting
with the most recent full dump. If, in contrast, a volume name
explicitly includes the B<.backup> or
B<.readonly> extension, the Backup System restores dumps of the
corresponding volume version only.

=item -extension

Creates a new volume to house the restored data, with a name derived by
appending the specified string to each volume named by the B<-volume>
argument. The Backup System creates a new VLDB entry for the
volume. Any string other than B<.readonly> or
B<.backup> is acceptable, but the combination of the existing
volume name and extension cannot exceed 22 characters in length. To use
a period to separate the extension from the name, specify it as the first
character of the string (as in B<.rst>, for example).

=item -date

Specifies a date and optionally time; the restored volume includes
data from dumps performed before the date only. Provide a value in the
format I<mm>/I<dd>/I<yyyy> [I<hh>:I<MM>],
where the required I<mm/dd/yyyy> portion indicates the month
(I<mm>), day (I<dd>), and year (I<yyyy>), and the optional
I<hh:MM> portion indicates the hour and minutes in 24-hour format
(for example, the value B<14:36> represents 2:36
p.m.). If omitted, the time defaults to 59 seconds after
midnight (00:00:59 hours).

Valid values for the year range from 1970 to
B<2037>; higher values are not valid because the latest possible
date in the standard UNIX representation is in February 2038. The
command interpreter automatically reduces any later date to the maximum
value.

If this argument is omitted, the Backup System restores all possible dumps
including the most recently created.

=item -portoffset

Specifies one or more port offset numbers (up to a maximum of 128), each
corresponding to a Tape Coordinator to use in the operation. If there
is more than one value, the Backup System uses the first one when restoring
the full dump of each volume, the second one when restoring the level 1
incremental dump of each volume, and so on. It uses the final value in
the list when restoring dumps at the corresponding depth in the dump hierarchy
and all dumps at lower levels.

Provide this argument unless the default value of 0 (zero) is appropriate
for all dumps. If B<0> is just one of the values in the list,
provide it explicitly in the appropriate order.

=item -n

Displays the list of tapes that contain the dumps required by the restore
operation, without actually performing the operation.

=item -localauth

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<backup> command
interpreter presents it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server
during mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument. For more details, see the introductory
B<backup> reference page.

=item -cell

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<backup> reference page.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

If the issuer includes the -n flag with the command, the
following string appears at the head of the list of the tapes necessary to
complete the restore operation.

   Tapes needed:

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command restores the volume user.pat to
partition B</vicepa> on machine
B<fs5.abc.com>:

   % backup volrestore -server fs5.abc.com -partition a -volume user.pat

The following command restores the volumes user.smith and
B<user.terry> to partition B</vicepb> on machine
B<fs4.abc.com>, adding a B<.rst>
extension to each volume name and preserving the existing
B<user.smith> and B<user.terry> volumes.
Only dumps created before 5:00 p.m. on 31 January 1998 are
restored. (The command is shown here on multiple lines only for
legibility reasons.)

   % backup volrestore -server fs4.abc.com -partition b  \
                       -volume user.smith user.terry  \ 
                       -extension .rst -date 1/31/1998 17:00

The following command restores the volume user.pat to
partition B</vicepb> on machine
B<fs4.abc.com>. The Tape Coordinator with port
offset 1 handles the tape containing the full dump; the Tape Coordinator
with port offset 0 handles all tapes containing incremental dumps. (The
command is shown here on two lines only for legibility reasons.)

   % backup volrestore -server fs5.abc.com -partition a  \
                       -volume user.pat -portoffset 1 0

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the /usr/afs/etc/UserList file on
every machine where the Backup Server or Volume Location (VL) Server is
running, and on every file server machine that houses an affected
volume. If the B<-localauth> flag is included, the issuer must
instead be logged on to a server machine as the local superuser
B<root>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(1)>,
L<backup_dump(1)>,
L<backup_diskrestore(1)>,
L<backup_volsetrestore(1)>,
L<butc(1)>,
L<vos_backup(1)>,
L<vos_remove(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
