=head1 NAME

backup dbverify - Checks the integrity of the Backup Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<backup dbverify> [B<-detail>]  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]  [-help]

B<backup db> [B<-d>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [-h]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The backup dbverify command checks the integrity of the Backup
Database. The command's output indicates whether the Backup
Database is damaged (data is corrupted) or not. If the Backup Database
is undamaged, it is safe to continue using it. If it is corrupted,
discontinue any backup operations until it is repaired.

=head1 CAVEATS

While this command runs, no other backup operation can access the Backup
Database; the other commands do not run until this command
completes. Avoid issuing this command when other backup operations are
likely to run. The B<backup savedb> command repairs some types
of corruption.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -detail

Reports the number of orphaned blocks found, any inconsistencies, and the
name of the server machine running the Backup Server that is checking its copy
of the database.

=item -localauth

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<backup> command
interpreter presents it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server
during mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument. For more details, see the introductory
B<backup> reference page.

=item -cell

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<backup> reference page.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The command displays one of the following two messages:

=over 4

=item C<Database OK
>

The database is undamaged and can be used.

=item C<Database not OK
>

The database is damaged. You can use the backup savedb
command to repair many kinds of corruption as it creates a backup copy.
For more detailed instructions, see the I<IBM AFS Administration
Guide> chapter about performing backup operations.

=back

The -detail flag provides additional information:

=over 4

=item *

The number of I<orphan blocks> found. These are ranges of
memory that the Backup Server preallocated in the database but cannot
use. Orphan blocks do not interfere with database access, but do waste
disk space. To free the unusable space, dump the database to tape by
using the B<backup savedb> command, and then restore it by using the
B<backup restoredb> command.


=item *

Any inconsistencies in the database, such as invalid hostnames for Tape
Coordinator machines.


=item *

The name of the database server machine on which the Backup Database was
checked, designated as the C<Database checker>. For a detailed
trace of the verification operation, see the
B</usr/afs/logs/BackupLog> file on the indicated machine. You
can use the B<bos getlog> command to display it.


=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command confirms that the Backup Database is undamaged:

   % backup dbverify
   Database OK

The following command confirms that the Backup Database is undamaged and
that it has no orphan blocks or invalid Tape Coordinator entries. The
Backup Server running on the machine B<db1.abc.com>
checked its copy of the Database.

   % backup dbverify -detail
   Database OK
   Orphan blocks 0
   Database checker was db1.abc.com

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the /usr/afs/etc/UserList file on
every machine where the Backup Server is running, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser B<root> if the
B<-localauth> flag is included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<BackupLog(1)>,
L<bos_getlog(1)>,
L<backup(1)>,
L<backup_restoredb(1)>,
L<backup_savedb(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
