=head1 NAME

backup kill - Terminates a pending or running operation

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<kill -id> <I<job ID or dump set name>> [-help]

B<k -i> <I<job ID or dump set name>>  [-h]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The (backup) kill command dequeues a Backup System operation
that is pending, or terminates an operation that is running, in the current
interactive session. It is available only in interactive mode.
If the issuer of the B<backup (interactive)> command included the
B<-localauth> flag, the B<-cell> argument, or both, then those
settings apply to this command also.

To terminate a dump operation, specify either the dump name
(I<volume_set_name>.I<dump_level_name>) or its job ID
number, which appears in the output from the B<(backup) jobs>
command. To terminate any other type of operation, provide the job ID
number.

The effect of terminating an operation depends on the type and current
state of the operation:

=over 4

=item *

If an operation is still pending, the Tape Coordinator removes it from the
queue with no other lasting effects.


=item *

If the Tape Coordinator is unable to process the termination signal before
an operation completes, it simply confirms the operation's
completion. The operator must take the action necessary to undo the
effects of the incorrect operation.


=item *

If a tape labeling operation is running, the effect depends on when the
Tape Coordinator receives the termination signal. The labeling
operation is atomic, so it either completes or does not begin at all.
Use the B<backup readlabel> command to determine if the labeling
operation completed, and reissue the B<backup labeltape> command to
overwrite the incorrect label if necessary.


=item *

If a tape scanning operation is running, it terminates with no other
effects unless the B<-dbadd> flag was included on the
B<backup> command. In that case, the Backup System possibly has
already written new Backup Database records to represent dumps on the scanned
tape. If planning to restart the scanning operation, first locate and
remove the records created during the terminated operation: a repeated
B<backup scantape> operation exits automatically when it finds that a
record that it needs to create already exists.


=item *

If a dump operation is running, all of the volumes written to the tape or
backup data file before the termination signal is received are complete and
usable. If the operation is restarted, the Backup System performs all
the dumps again from scratch, and assigns a new dump ID number. If
writing the new dumps to the same tape or file, the operator must relabel it
first if the interrupted dump is not expired. If writing the new dump
to a different tape or file, the operator can remove the dump record
associated with the interrupted dump to free up space in the database.


=item *

If a restore operation is running, completely restored volumes are online
and usable. However, it is unlikely that many volumes are completely
restored, given that complete restoration usually requires data from multiple
tapes. If the termination signal comes before the Backup System has
accessed all of the necessary tapes, each volume is only partially written and
is never brought online. It is best to restart the restore operation
from scratch to avoid possible inconsistencies. See also the
B<Cautions> section.


=back

=head1 CAVEATS

It is best not to issue the (backup) kill command against
restore operations. If the termination signal interrupts a restore
operation as the Backup System is overwriting an existing volume, it is
possible to lose the volume entirely (that is, to lose both the contents of
the volume as it was before the restore and any data that was restored before
the termination signal arrived). The data being restored still exists
on the tape, but some data can be lost permanently.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -id

Identifies the backup operation to terminate. Provide one of two
types of values: 

=over 4

=item *

The operation's job ID number, as displayed in the output of the
B<(backup) jobs> command.


=item *

For a dump operation, either the job ID number or a dump name of the form
I<volume_set_name>.I<dump_level_name>, where
I<volume_set_name> is the name of the volume set being dumped and
I<dump_level_name> is the last element in the dump level pathname at
which the volume set is being dumped. The dump name appears in the
output of the B<(backup) jobs> command along with the job ID
number.


=back

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command terminates the operation with job ID 5:

   backup> kill 5

The following command terminates the dump operation called
B<user.sunday1>:

   backup> kill user.sunday1

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the privilege required to initiate the operation being
cancelled. Because this command can be issued only within the
interactive session during which the operation was initiated, the required
privilege is essentially guaranteed.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(1)>,
L<backup_interactive(1)>,
L<backup_jobs(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
