=head1 NAME

backup_delhost - Deletes a Tape Coordinator entry from the Backup Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<backup delhost> S<<< B<-tapehost> <I<tape machine name>> >>>
    S<<< [B<-portoffset> <I<TC port offset>>] >>> [B<-localauth>]
    S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-help>]

B<backup delh> S<<< B<-t> <I<tape machine name>> >>> S<<< [B<-p> <I<TC port offset>>] >>>
    [B<-l>] S<<< [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<backup delhost> command deletes the indicated Tape Coordinator entry
from the Backup Database. It is then impossible to submit backup
operations to that Tape Coordinator, even if it is still running. To keep
configuration information consistent, also remove the corresponding entry
from the F</usr/afs/backup/tapeconfig> file on the Tape Coordinator
machine.

To list the Tape Coordinator machines and port offsets defined in the
Backup Database, issue the B<backup listhosts> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-tapehost> <I<tape machine name>>

Specifies the hostname of the machine housing the Tape Coordinator to
delete.

=item B<-portoffset> <I<TC port offset>>

Specifies the port offset number of the Tape Coordinator to delete.  If
omitted, it defaults to C<0>. If provided, it is an integer between C<0>
(zero) and C<58510>, and must match the port offset number assigned to the
same combination of Tape Coordinator and tape device or file in the
F</usr/afs/backup/tapeconfig> file on the Tape Coordinator machine
indicated by the B<-tapehost> argument.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<backup> command interpreter presents
it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> argument. For
more details, see L<backup(8)>.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<backup(8)>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command deletes the Backup Database entry for the Tape
Coordinator with port offset 2 on the Tape Coordinator machine
C<backup3.abc.com>:

   % backup delhost -tapehost backup3.abc.com -portoffset 2

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on every
machine where the Backup Server is running, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser C<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(8)>,
L<backup_addhost(8)>,
L<backup_listhosts(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
