=head1 NAME

backup_delvolset - Deletes one or more volume sets from the Backup Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<backup delvolset> S<<< B<-name> <I<volume set name>>+ >>> [B<-localauth>]
    S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-help>]

B<backup delvols> S<<< B<-n> <I<volume set name>>+ >>> [B<-l>]
    S<<< [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<backup delvolset> command deletes each volume set named by the
B<-name> argument, and the volume entries each contains, from the Backup
Database. The B<backup listvolsets> command lists the volume sets (and
their volume entries) currently defined in the Backup Database.

=head1 CAUTIONS

Deleting a temporary volume set is possible only within the interactive
session in which it was created. Exiting the interactive session also
destroys the temporary volume set automatically.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-name> <I<volume set name>>+

Names each volume set to delete.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<backup> command interpreter presents
it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> argument. For
more details, see L<backup(8)>.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<backup(8)>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command deletes the volume set called user and all volume
entries in it:

   % backup delvolset user

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on every
machine where the Backup Server is running, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser C<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(8)>,
L<backup_addvolentry(8)>,
L<backup_addvolset(8)>,
L<backup_delvolentry(8)>,
L<backup_listvolsets(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
