=head1 NAME

backup delvolentry - Deletes a volume entry from a volume set

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<backup delvolentry> S<<< B<-name> <I<volume set name>> >>>
    S<<< B<-entry> <I<volume set index>> >>> [B<-localauth>]
    S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-help>]

B<backup delvole> S<<< B<-n> <I<volume set name>> >>> S<<< B<-e> <I<volume set index>> >>>
    [B<-l>] S<<< [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<backup delvolentry> command deletes the indicated volume entry from
the volume set specified with the B<-name> argument.  Use the B<-entry>
argument to identify the volume entry by its index number. To display the
index numbers, use the B<backup listvolsets> command.

If there are any remaining volume entries with index numbers higher than
the deleted entry, their indexes are automatically decremented to
eliminate any gaps in the indexing sequence.

=head1 CAUTIONS

Deleting volume entries from a temporary volume set is possible only
within the interactive session in which the volume set was created.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-name> <I<volume set name>>

Names the volume set from which to delete a volume entry.

=item B<-entry> <I<volume set index>>

Specifies the index number of the volume entry to delete. Use the B<backup
listvolsets> command to display the index numbers for a volume set's
volume entries.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<backup> command interpreter presents
it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> argument. For
more details, see L<backup(8)>.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<backup(8)>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command deletes the fourth volume entry from the volume set
called C<sys>:

   % backup delvolentry -name sys -entry 4

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on every
machine where the Backup Server is running, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser C<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(8)>,
L<backup_addvolentry(8)>,
L<backup_addvolset(8)>,
L<backup_delvolset(8)>,
L<backup_listvolsets(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
