=head1 NAME

backup_listvolsets - Lists volume set entries from the Backup Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<backup listvolsets> S<<< [B<-name> <I<volume set name>>] >>> [B<-localauth>]
    S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-help>]

B<backup listv> S<<< [B<-n> <I<volume set name>>] >>> [B<-l>]
    S<<< [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<backup listvolsets> command displays the Backup Database records for
either

=over 4

=item *

All volume sets and their volume entries, if the B<-name> argument is
omitted.

=item *

The volume set specified by the B<-name> argument, along with its volume
entries.

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-name> <I<volume set name>>

Names the volume set to display. If this argument is omitted, the output
lists all volume sets defined in the Backup Database.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<backup> command interpreter presents
it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> argument. For
more details, see L<backup(8)>.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<backup(8)>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The entry for each volume set begins with the C<Volume set> header and the
volume set's name. A temporary volume set's name is followed by the string
C< (temporary)>. Each volume entry follows on a separate line, indicating
the entry's index number and the server, partition, and volume names it
matches. The output uses the metacharacter notation described on the
B<backup addvolentry> reference page. Use the index number to identify
volume entries when deleting them with the B<backup delvolentry> command.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows the volume entries in the three volume sets
currently defined in the Backup Database:

   % backup listvolsets
   Volume set user:
       Entry   1: server .*, partition .*, volumes: user.*\.backup
   Volume set sun
       Entry   1: server .*, partition .*, volumes: sun4x_55\..*
       Entry   2: server .*, partition .*, volumes: sun4x_56\..*
   Volume set rs
       Entry   1: server .*, partition .*, volumes: rs_aix42\..*

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on every
machine where the Backup Server is running, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser C<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(8)>,
L<backup_addvolentry(8)>,
L<backup_addvolset(8)>,
L<backup_delvolentry(8)>,
L<backup_delvolset(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
