=head1 NAME

backup restoredb - Restores a saved copy of the Backup Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<backup restoredb> [-portoffset <I<TC port offset>>]
[B<-localauth>]  [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-help>]

B<backup res> [B<-p> <I<TC port offset>>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [-h]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The backup restoredb command restores to the Backup Server
machine's local disk a version of the Backup Database previously written
to tape by using the B<backup savedb> command.

(If the FILE YES instruction appears in the
B</usr/afs/backup/CFG_>I<device_name> file associated with the
specified port offset, then the B<backup restoredb> command restores
data from the backup data file listed for that port offset in the Tape
Coordinator's B</usr/afs/backup/tapeconfig> file, instead of from
tape. For the sake of clarity, the following text refers to tapes only,
but the Backup System handles backup data files in much the same way.)

The most common reason to run this command is to replace a corrupted or
otherwise damaged Backup Database; use the B<backup dbverify>
command to determine the database's status. The command can also
be used to restore records that were removed from the database when the
B<-archive> argument was included on a previous B<backup
savedb> command.

The command completely overwrites the existing Backup Database records for
volume sets, Tape Coordinators, and the dump hierarchy with the corresponding
information from the saved version. It does not overwrite existing dump
records, but instead interleaves the records from the copy being
restored. If both the existing database (on the Backup Server
machine's disk) and the copy being restored include a record about the
same dump, the Backup System retains the one in the existing database.

The Tape Coordinator's default response to this command is to access
the first tape it needs by invoking the B<MOUNT> instruction in the
local B</usr/afs/backup/CFG_>I<device_name> file, or by
prompting the backup operator to insert the tape if there is no
B<MOUNT> instruction. However, if the B<AUTOQUERY NO>
instruction appears in the B<CFG_>I<device_name> file, or if the
issuer of the B<butc> command included the B<-noautoquery>
flag, the Tape Coordinator instead expects the tape to be in the device
already. If it is not, or is the wrong tape, the Tape Coordinator
invokes the B<MOUNT> instruction or prompts the operator. It
also invokes the B<MOUNT> instruction or prompts for any additional
tapes needed to complete the restore operation; the backup operator must
arrange to provide them.

=head1 CAUTIONS

If the database is corrupted, do not attempt to restore a saved database on
top of it. Instead, use the instructions for repairing a corrupted
database in the I<IBM AFS Administration Guide> chapter about
performing backup operations.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -portoffset

Specifies the port offset number of the Tape Coordinator handling the
tapes for this operation.

=item -localauth

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<backup> command
interpreter presents it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server
during mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument. For more details, see the introductory
B<backup> reference page.

=item -cell

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<backup> reference page.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows the Backup Database being restored from the
Tape Coordinator with port offset 0:

   % backup restoredb

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the /usr/afs/etc/UserList file on
every machine where the Backup Server is running, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser B<root> if the
B<-localauth> flag is included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(1)>,
L<backup_dbverify(1)>,
L<backup_savedb(1)>,
L<butc(1)>

I<IBM AFS Administration Guide>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
