=head1 NAME

backup dump - Creates a dump (dumps a volume set at a particular dump level)

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<backup dump> [B<-volumeset> <I<volume set name>>]  [-dump <I<dump level name>>]
[B<-portoffset> <I<TC port offset>>]  [B<-at> <I<Date/time to start dump>>+]
            [B<-append>]  [B<-n>]  [-file <I<load file>>]
            [B<-localauth>]  [-B<cell> <I<cell name>>]  [-help]

B<backup dump> [B<-v> <I<volume set name>>]  [-d <I<dump level name>>]
[B<-p> <I<TC port offset>>]  [B<-at> <I<Date/time to start dump>>+]
            [B<-ap>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-f> <I<load file>>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [-h]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The backup dump command either dumps the volume set specified by
the B<-volumeset> argument at the dump level specified by the
B<-dump> argument and creates a Backup Database dump record about it,
or executes the dump instructions listed in the file named by the
B<-file> argument. The Tape Coordinator indicated by the
B<-portoffset> argument (or on each command in the file) executes the
operation.

(If the FILE YES instruction appears in the
B</usr/afs/backup/CFG_>I<device_name> file on the Tape
Coordinator machine associated with the specified port offset, then the Backup
System dumps data to the backup data file listed for that port offset in the
Tape Coordinator's B</usr/afs/backup/tapeconfig> file, rather
than to tape. For the sake of clarity, the following text refers to
tapes only, but the Backup System handles backup data files in much the same
way.)

The term I<dumping> refers to copying a collection of data to tape
or a backup data file, and the resulting collection is termed a
I<dump>. The set of tapes that contain one or more dumps is
called a I<dump set>. The first dump in a dump set is its
I<initial dump>, and any dumps subsequently added to the dump set (by
use of the B<-append> argument) are I<appended dumps>.
Creating appended dumps is optional, and appended dumps can be of different
volume sets, and at different dump levels, than the initial dump.

A I<full dump>, created at a full dump level in the dump hierarchy,
contains all of the data that existed at the time of the dump in the volumes
belonging to the volume set. An I<incremental dump>, created at
an incremental dump level, contains only data that has changed since the
volume set was dumped at the incremental level's I<parent dump
level> (the dump level immediately above the incremental level in the
hierarchy), which can be a full or incremental level. More
specifically, an incremental dump includes only the files and directories that
have modification timestamps later than the I<clone date> of the
volume included at the parent dump level. For backup and read-only
volumes, the clone date is the time at which the volume was cloned from its
read/write source before being included in the parent dump; for
read/write volumes, it represents the time at which the volume was locked for
inclusion in the parent dump. The clone date appears in the I<clone
date> field of the output from the B<backup volinfo>
command. As an example, an incremental dump at the
B</full/week1/thursday> level includes only files and directories that
have changed since the volume set was dumped at the B</full/week1>
level.

Initiating different types of dump operations

To initiate a dump operation that is to start as soon as the relevant Tape
Coordinator is available, provide only the B<-volumeset>,
B<-dump>, B<-portoffset>, and optionally B<-append>
options. To schedule a single B<backup dump> command to execute
in the future, also include the B<-at> argument to specify the start
time.

To append a dump to an existing dump set, include the -append
flag. The Backup System imposes the following conditions on appended
dumps:

=over 4

=item *

If writing to tape, the Tape Coordinator checks that it is the final one
in a dump set for which there are complete and valid tape and dump records in
the Backup Database. If not, it rejects the tape and requests an
acceptable one. The operator can use the B<-dbadd> argument to
the B<backup scantape> command to insert the necessary records into
the database.


=item *

The most recent dump on the tape or in the backup data file must have
completed successfully.


=item *

The dump set must begin with an initial dump that is recorded in the
Backup Database. If there are no dumps on the tape, then the Backup
System treats the dump operation as an initial dump and imposes the relevant
requirements (for example, checks the AFS tape name if appropriate).


=back

To schedule multiple dump operations, list the operations in the file named
by the B<-file> argument. Optionally include the B<-at>
argument to specify when the B<backup> command interpreter reads the
file; otherwise it reads it immediately. Do not combine the
B<-file> argument with the command's first three arguments or the
B<-append> or B<-n> flags. The commands in the file can
include any of the B<backup dump> command's arguments, including
the B<-at> argument to schedule them to run even later in the
future.

To generate a list of the volumes included in a dump, without actually
dumping them, combine the B<-n> flag with the options to be used on
the actual command.

How the Backup System executes a dump operation

Before beginning a dump operation, the Backup System verifies that there is
a Backup Database entry for the volume set, dump level, and port
offset. If the command is correctly formed and issued in interactive
mode, it is assigned a job number and added to the jobs list. List jobs
in interactive mode by using the B<(backup) jobs> command;
terminate them with the B<(backup) kill> command.

After obtaining the list of volumes to dump from the Volume Location (VL)
Server, the Backup System sorts the list by site (server and
partition). It groups volumes from the same site together in the dump
to minimize the number of times the operator must change tapes during restore
operations.

The dependence of an incremental dump on its parent means that a valid
parent dump must already exist for the Backup System to create its child
incremental dump. If the Backup System does not find a record of a dump
created at the immediate parent dump level, it looks in the Backup Database
for a dump created at one level higher in the hierarchy, and so on, up to the
full dump level if necessary. It creates an incremental dump at the
level one below the lowest valid parent dump set that it finds. If it
fails to find even a full dump, it dumps the volume set at the full dump
level.

If the Backup System is unable to access a volume during a dump operation,
it skips the volume and dumps the remaining volumes from the volume
set. Possible reasons a volume is inaccessible include server machine
or process outages, or that the volume was moved between the time the Volume
Location (VL) Server generated the list of sites for the volume in the volume
set and the time the Backup System actually attempts to dump the data in
it. After the first dumping pass, the Backup System attempts to dump
each volume it skipped. If it still cannot dump a volume and the
B<ASK NO> instruction does not appear in the
B<CFG_>I<device_name> file, it queries the operator as to
whether it needs to attempt to dump the volume again, omit the volume from the
dump, or halt the dump operation altogether. When prompted, the
operator can attempt to solve whatever problem prevented the Backup System
from accessing the volumes. If the B<ASK NO> instruction
appears in the B<CFG_>I<device_name> file, the Backup System
omits the volume from the dump.

Before scheduling a dump operation, the Backup System verifies that the
date specified by the B<-at> argument is in the future, and checks the
validity of the volume set, dump level and port offset as for a regular dump
operation. It checks the validity of the parameters again just before
actually running the scheduled operation.

Before writing an initial dump to a tape that does not have a permanent
name on the label, the Backup System checks that the AFS tape name on the
label is acceptable. If desired, disable name checking by including the
B<NAME_CHECK NO> instruction in the
B<CFG_>I<device_name> file.

If AFS tape name checking is enabled, the Backup System accepts the
following three types of values for the AFS tape name. If the name on
the label does not conform, the Backup System obtains a tape with an
acceptable label by invoking the B<MOUNT> instruction in the
B<CFG_>I<device_name> file or prompting the operator.

=item *

A name of the form
I<volume_set_name.dump_level_name.tape_index>, where
I<volume_set_name> matches the value of the B<-volumeset>
argument, I<dump_level_name> matches the last element in the pathname
value of the B<-dump> argument, and I<tape_index> reflects the
tape's place in a multitape dump set. As an example, the first
tape in a dump set for which the initial dump is of volume set B<user>
at the dump level B</sunday2/monday> has AFS tape name
B<user.monday.1>. If the label records this type
of AFS tape name, the Backup System retains the AFS tape name and writes the
dump to the tape.


=item *

The string C<<NULL>>, which usually indicates that a backup
operator has used the B<backup labeltape> command to write a label on
the tape, but did not include the B<-name> argument to assign an AFS
tape name. Presumably, the operator did include the B<-pname>
argument to assign a permanent name. If the label records a
C<<NULL>> value, the Backup System constructs and records on the
label the appropriate AFS tape name, and writes the dump on the tape.


=item *

No value at all, because the tape has never been labeled or used in the
Backup System. As when the AFS tape name is C<<NULL>>, the
Backup System constructs and records on the label the appropriate AFS tape
name, and writes the dump on the tape.


To determine how much data it can write to a tape, the Tape Coordinator
reads the capacity recorded on the tape's label (placed there by
including the B<-size> argument to the B<backup labeltape>
command). If the label's capacity field is empty, the Tape
Coordinator uses the capacity recorded for the specified port offset in the
local B<tapeconfig> file. If the capacity field in the
B<tapeconfig> file is also empty, the Tape Coordinator uses the
maximum capacity of 2 TB.

During a dump operation, the Tape Coordinator tracks how much data it has
written and stops shortly before it reaches what it believes is the
tape's capacity. If it is in the middle of writing the data for a
volume when it reaches that point, it writes a special marker that indicates
an interrupted volume and continues writing the volume on the next
tape. It can split a volume this way during both an initial and an
appended dump, and the fact that the volume resides on multiple tapes is
automatically recorded in the Backup Database.

If the tape is actually larger than the expected capacity, then the Tape
Coordinator simply does not use the excess tape. If the tape is smaller
than the expected capacity, the Tape Coordinator can reach the end-of-tape
(EOT) unexpectedly while it is writing data. If the Tape Coordinator is
in the middle of the writing data from a volume, it obtains a new tape and
rewrites the entire contents of the interrupted volume to it. The data
from the volume that was written to the previous tape remains there, but is
never used.

The Backup System allows recycling of tapes (writing a new dump set over an
old dump set that is no longer needed), but imposes the following
conditions:

=over 4

=item *

All dumps in the old dump set must be expired. The Backup System
always checks expiration dates, even when name checking is disabled.


=item *

If the tape to be recycled does not have a permanent name and name
checking is enabled, then the AFS tape name derived from the new initial
dump's volume set name and dump level name must match the AFS tape name
already recorded on the label.


=item *

The tape cannot already have data on it that belongs to the dump currently
being performed, because that implies that the operator or automated tape
device has not removed the previous tape from the drive, or has mistakenly
reinserted it. The Tape Coordinator generates the following message and
attempts to obtain another tape: 


   Can't overwrite tape containing the dump in progress

=item *

The tape cannot contain data from a parent dump of the current
(incremental) dump, because overwriting a parent dump makes it impossible to
restore data from the current dump. The Tape Coordinator generates the
following message and attempts to obtain another tape: 


   Can't overwrite the parent dump I<parent_name> (I<parent_dump_ID>)

=back

To recycle a tape before all dumps on it have expired or if the AFS tape
name is wrong, use the B<backup labeltape> command to overwrite the
tape's label and remove all associated tape and dump records from the
Backup Database.

The Tape Coordinator's default response to this command is to access
the first tape by invoking the B<MOUNT> instruction in the
B<CFG_>I<device_name> file, or by prompting the backup operator
to insert the tape if there is no B<MOUNT> instruction.
However, if the B<AUTOQUERY NO> instruction appears in the
B<CFG_>I<device_name> file, or if the issuer of the
B<butc> command included the B<-noautoquery> flag, the Tape
Coordinator instead expects the tape to be in the device already. If it
is not, the Tape Coordinator invokes the B<MOUNT> instruction or
prompts the operator. It also invokes the B<MOUNT> instruction
or prompts for any additional tapes needed to complete the dump
operation; the issuer must arrange to provide them.

=head1 CAVEATS

If a dump operation is interrupted or fails for any reason, data from all
volumes written to tape before the interrupt are valid can be used in a
restore operation. The Backup Database includes an entry for the failed
dump and for each volume that was successfully dumped. See the I<IBM
AFS Administration Guide> for information on dealing with interrupted
dumps.

If dumping to tape rather than a backup data file, it is best to use only
compatible tape devices (ones that can read the same type of tape).
Using compatible devices greatly simplifies restore operations. The
B<-portoffset> argument to the B<backup diskrestore> and
B<backup volsetrestore> commands accepts multiple port offset numbers,
but the Backup System uses the first listed port offset when restoring all
full dumps, the second port offset when restoring all level 1 dumps, and so
on. At the very least, use compatible tape devices to perform dumps at
each level. If compatible tape devices are not used, the B<backup
volrestore> command must be used to restore one volume at a time.

Valid (unexpired) administrative tokens must be available to the
B<backup> command interpreter both when it reads the file named by the
B<-file> argument and when it runs each operation listed in the
file. Presumably, the issuer is scheduling dumps for times when no
human operator is present, and so must arrange for valid tokens to be
available on the local machine. One option is to issue all commands (or
run all scripts) on file server machines and use the B<-localauth>
flag on the B<backup> and B<vos> commands. To protect
against improper access to the machine or the tokens, the machine must be
physically secure (perhaps even more protected than a Tape Coordinator machine
monitored by a human operator during operation). Also, if an unattended
dump requires multiple tapes, the operator must properly configure a tape
stacker or jukebox and the device configuration file.

When the command is issued in regular (non-interactive) mode, the command
shell prompt does not return until the dump operation completes. To
avoid having to open additional connections, issue the command in interactive
mode, especially when including the B<-at> argument to schedule dump
operations.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -volumeset

Names the volume set to dump. The -dump argument must be
provided along with this one; do not combine them with the
B<-file> argument. If using a temporary volume set, the
B<vos dump> command must be issued within the interactive session in
which the B<backup addvolset> command was issued with the
B<-temporary> flag.

=item -dump

Specifies the complete pathname of the dump level at which to dump the
volume set. The B<-volumeset> argument must be provided along
with this one; do not combine them with the B<-file>
argument.

=item -portoffset

Specifies the port offset number of the Tape Coordinator handling the
tapes for this operation. It must be provided unless the default value
of 0 (zero) is appropriate; do not combine it with the B<-file>
argument.

=item -at
>

Specifies the date and time in the future at which to run the command, or
to read the file named by the B<-file> argument. Provide a
value in the format I<mm/dd/yyyy> [I<hh:MM>], where the
month (I<mm>), day (I<dd>), and year (I<yyyy>) are
required. Valid values for the year range from B<1970> to
B<2037>; higher values are not valid because the latest possible
date in the standard UNIX representation is in February 2038. The
Backup System automatically reduces any later date to the maximum
value.

The hour and minutes (I<hh:MM>) are optional, but if provided
must be in 24-hour format (for example, the value B<14:36>
represents 2:36 p.m.). If omitted, the time
defaults to midnight (00:00 hours).

As an example, the value 04/23/1999 20:20 schedules the
command for 8:20 p.m. on 23 April 1999.

=item -append

Appends the dump onto the end of a tape that already contains data from
another dump. However, if the tape is not in fact part of an existing
dump set, the Backup System creates a new dump set using the parameters of
this dump. If the tape is not the last tape in the dump set, the Tape
Coordinator prompts for insertion of the appropriate tape. Do not
combine this argument with the B<-file> argument.

=item -n

Displays the names of volumes to be included in the indicated dump,
without actually performing the dump operation. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-file> argument.

=item -file

Specifies the local disk or AFS pathname of a file containing
B<backup> commands. The Backup System reads the file
immediately, or at the time specified by the B<-at> argument if it is
provided. A partial pathname is interpreted relative to the current
working directory.

Place each backup dump command on its own line in the indicated
file, using the same syntax as for the command line, but without the word
B<backup> at the start of the line. Each command must include a
value for the B<-volumeset> and B<-dump> arguments, and for
the B<-portoffset> argument unless the default value of 0 is
appropriate. Commands in the file can also include any of the
B<backup dump> command's optional options. In the
following example file, the first command runs as soon as the Backup System
reads the file, whereas the other commands are themselves scheduled; the
specified date and time must be later than the date and time at which the
Backup System reads the file.

   dump user /sunday1/wednesday -port 1 
   dump sun4x_56 /sunday1/friday -port 2 -at 04/08/1999
   dump sun4x_55 /sunday1/friday -port 2 -at 04/08/1999 02:00 -append

Do not combine this argument with the -volumeset,
B<-dump>, B<-portoffset>, B<-append>, or B<-n>
options.

=item -localauth

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<backup> command
interpreter presents it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server
during mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument. For more details, see the introductory
B<backup> reference page.

=item -cell

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<backup> reference page.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The command interpreter first generates a list of the volumes to be
included in the dump by matching the entries in the volume set against the
volumes listed in the Volume Location Database (VLDB). It prints the
list following the header:

   Preparing to dump the following volumes:

The following message then indicates that the command interpreter has
passed the dump request to the appropriate Tape Coordinator for
processing:

   Starting dump.

If the issuer includes the -n flag, the output is of the
following form:

   Starting dump of volume set 'I<volume set>' (dump set 'I<dump level>')
   Total number of volumes : I<number dumped>
   Would have dumped the following volumes:
   I<list_of_volumes>

where I<list_of_volumes> identifies each volume by name and volume ID
number.

If the Tape Coordinator is unable to access a volume, it prints an error
message in its window and records the error in its log and error files.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command dumps the volumes in the volume set called
B<user> at the dump level B</full/sunday2/monday>. The
issuer places the necessary tapes in the device with port offset 5.

   % backup dump -volumeset user -dump /full/sunday2/monday -portoffset 5
   Preparing to dump the following volumes:
   user.jones.backup   387623900
   user.pat.backup     486219245
   user.smith.backup   597315841
          .                .
          .                .
   Starting dump.

The following command displays the list of volumes to be dumped when the
user dumps the B<sys_sun> volume set at the B</full> dump
level.

   % backup dump -volumeset sys_sun -dump /full -n
   Starting dump of volume set 'sys_sun' (dump set '/full')
   Total number of volumes: 24
   Would have dumped the following volumes:
   sun4x_56      124857238
   sun4x_56.bin  124857241
       .            .
       .            .
   sun4x_55      124857997
       .            .
       .            .

The following command schedules a dump of the volumes in the volume set
B<user> at the dump level B</sunday2/monday1> for 11:00
p.m. on 14 June 1999. The appropriate Tape Coordinator
has port offset 0 (zero), so that argument is omitted.

   % backup dump -volumeset user -dump /sunday2/monday1 -at 06/14/1999 23:00

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the /usr/afs/etc/UserList file on
every machine where the Backup Server or Volume Location (VL) Server is
running, and on every file server machine that houses an affected
volume. If the B<-localauth> flag is included, the issuer must
instead be logged on to a server machine as the local superuser
B<root>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(1)>,
L<backup_adddump(1)>,
L<backup_addvolentry(1)>,
L<backup_addvolset(1)>,
L<backup_diskrestore(1)>,
L<backup_labeltape(1)>,
L<backup_volrestore(1)>,
L<butc(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
