=head1 NAME

backup_deletedump - Deletes one or more dump records from the Backup Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<backup deletedump> S<<< [B<-dumpid> <I<dump id>>+] >>> S<<< [B<-from> <I<date time>>+] >>>
    S<<< [B<-to> <I<date time>>+] >>> [B<-localauth>] S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>>
    [B<-help>]

B<backup dele> S<<< [B<-d> <I<dump id>>+] >>> S<<< [B<-f> <I<date time>>+] >>>
    [-t <I<date time>>+] [B<-l>] S<<< [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<backup deletedump> command deletes one or more dump records from the
Backup Database. Either use the B<-dumpid> argument to specify the dump ID
number of one or more dumps, or use the B<-from> and B<-to> arguments to
delete the records for all regular dumps created during the time period
bracketed by the specified values.

Use this command to remove dump records that are incorrect (possibly
because a dump operation was interrupted or failed), or that correspond to
dumps that are expired or otherwise no longer needed.

=head1 CAUTIONS

The only way to remove the dump record for an appended dump is to remove
the record for its initial dump, and doing so removes the records for all
of the initial dump's associated appended dumps.

The only way to remove the record for a Backup Database dump (created with
the B<backup savedb> command) is to specify its dump ID number with the
B<-dumpid> argument. Using the B<-from> and B<-to> arguments never removes
database dump records.

Removing records of a dump makes it impossible to restore data from the
corresponding tapes or from any dump that refers to the deleted dump as
its parent, directly or indirectly. That is, restore operations must begin
with the full dump and continue with each incremental dump in order. If
the records for a specific dump are removed, it is not possible to restore
data from later incremental dumps unless the deleted records are restored
by running the B<backup scantape> command with the B<-dbadd> flag.

If a dump set contains any dumps that were created outside the time range
specified by the B<-from> and B<-to> arguments, the command does not
delete any of the records associated with the dump set, even if some of
them represent dumps created during the time range.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-dumpid> <I<dump id>>+

Specifies the dump ID of each dump record to delete. The corresponding
dumps must be initial dumps; it is not possible to delete appended dump
records directly, but only by deleting the record of their associated
initial dump. Using this argument is the only way to delete records of
Backup Database dumps (created with the B<backup savedb> command).

Provide either this argument or the B<-to> (and optionally B<-from>)
argument.

=item B<-from> <I<date time>>+

Specifies the beginning of a range of dates; the record for any dump
created during the indicated period of time is deleted.

Omit this argument to indicate the default of midnight (00:00 hours) on 1
January 1970 (UNIX time zero), or provide a date value in the format
I<mm/dd/yyyy> [I<hh:MM>]. The month (I<mm>), day (I<dd>), and year
(I<yyyy>) are required. The hour and minutes (I<hh:MM>) are optional, but
if provided must be in 24-hour format (for example, the value C<14:36>
represents 2:36 p.m.). If omitted, the time defaults to midnight (00:00
hours).

The B<-to> argument must be provided along with this one.

=item B<-to> <I<date time>>+

Specifies the end of a range of dates; the record of any dump created
during the range is deleted from the Backup Database.

Provide either the value C<NOW> to indicate the current date and time, or
a date value in the same format as for the B<-from> argument. Valid values
for the year (I<yyyy>) range from C<1970> to C<2037>; higher values are
not valid because the latest possible date in the standard UNIX
representation is in February 2038. The command interpreter automatically
reduces any later date to the maximum value.

If the time portion (I<hh:MM>) is omitted, it defaults to 59 seconds after
midnight (00:00:59 hours). Similarly, the B<backup> command interpreter
automatically adds 59 seconds to any time value provided. In both cases,
adding 59 seconds compensates for how the Backup Database and B<backup
dumpinfo> command represent dump creation times in hours and minutes
only. For example, the Database records a creation timestamp of C<20:55>
for any dump operation that begins between 20:55:00 and 20:55:59.
Automatically adding 59 seconds to a time thus includes the records for
all dumps created during that minute.

Provide either this argument, or the B<-dumpid> argument.  This argument
is required if the B<-from> argument is provided.

B<Caution:> Specifying the value C<NOW> for this argument when the
B<-from> argument is omitted deletes all dump records from the Backup
Database (except for Backup Database dump records created with the
B<backup savedb> command).

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<backup> command interpreter presents
it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> argument. For
more details, see L<backup(8)>.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<backup(8)>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

At the conclusion of processing, the output lists the dump IDs of all dump
records deleted in the following format:

   The following dumps were deleted:
        dump ID 1
        dump ID 2
        etc.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command deletes the dump record with dump ID 653777462, and
for any appended dumps associated with it:

   % backup deletedump -dumpid 653777462
   The following dumps were deleted:
        653777462

The following command deletes the Backup Database record of all dumps
created between midnight on 1 January 1997 and 23:59:59 hours on 31
December 1997:

   % backup deletedump -from 01/01/1997 -to 12/31/1997
   The following dumps were deleted:
        598324045
        598346873
           ...
           ...
        653777523
        653779648

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on every
machine where the Backup Server is running, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser C<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(8)>,
L<backup_dumpinfo(8)>,
L<backup_scantape(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
