=head1 NAME

backup addhost - Adds a Tape Coordinator entry to the Backup Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<backup addhost -tapehost> <I<tape machine name>> [-portoffset <I<TC port offset>>]
[B<-localauth>]  [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-help>]

B<backup addh -t> <I<tape machine name>>  [-p <I<TC port offset>>]
[B<-l>]  [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The backup addhost command creates a Tape Coordinator entry in
the Backup Database. The entry records

=over 4

=item *

The host name of the Tape Coordinator machine where the Tape Coordinator
(B<butc>) process runs, as specified with the B<-tapehost>
argument.


=item *

The Tape Coordinator's port offset number, as specified with the
B<-portoffset> argument. An entry for the port offset must also
appear in the B</usr/afs/backup/tapeconfig> file on the Tape
Coordinator machine, where it is mapped to a UNIX device name (for a tape
device) or pathname (for a backup data file).


=back

Each Tape Coordinator must have its own port offset number, and the command
fails if a Backup Database entry already exists for the requested port offset
number. To display existing Tape Coordinator entries, use the
B<backup listhosts> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -tapehost

Specifies the fully-qualified hostname of the machine for which to create
a Tape Coordinator entry in the Backup Database. The machine must have
an entry in either the cell's naming service (such as the Domain Name
Service) or the host file (B</etc/hosts> or equivalent) on the machine
where the command is issued.

=item -portoffset

Specifies the Tape Coordinator's port offset number. Provide
an integer from the range B<0> through B<58510>, or omit this
argument to use the default value of B<0> (zero). The value
must match the port offset number recorded for the same combination of Tape
Coordinator and tape device or file in the
B</usr/afs/backup/tapeconfig> file on the Tape Coordinator machine
named by the B<-tapehost> argument.

=item -localauth

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<backup> command
interpreter presents it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server
during mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument. For more details, see the introductory
B<backup> reference page.

=item -cell

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<backup> reference page.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command creates an entry in the Backup Database that assigns
port offset number 4 to a Tape Coordinator running on the machine
B<backup1.abc.com>:

   % backup addhost -tapehost backup1.abc.com -portoffset 4

The following command creates a Backup Database entry that assigns port
offset number 0 to a Tape Coordinator on the machine
B<backup3.abc.com>:

   % backup addhost backup3.abc.com

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the /usr/afs/etc/UserList file on
every machine where the Backup Server is running, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser B<root> if the
B<-localauth> flag is included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(1)>,
L<backup_delhost(1)>,
L<backup_listhosts(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
