=head1 NAME

backup dumpinfo - Displays a dump record from the Backup Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<backup dumpinfo> [B<-ndumps> <I<no. of dumps>>]  [-id <I<dump id>>]
[B<-verbose>]  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-help> ]

B<backup dumpi> [B<-n> <I<no. of dumps>>]  [-i <I<dump id>>]
[B<-v>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The backup dumpinfo command formats and displays the Backup
Database record for the specified dumps. To specify how many of the
most recent dumps to display, starting with the newest one and going back in
time, use the B<-ndumps> argument. To display more detailed
information about a single dump, use the B<-id> argument. To
display the records for the 10 most recent dumps, omit both the
B<-ndumps> and B<-id> arguments.

The -verbose flag produces very detailed information that is
useful mostly for debugging purposes. It can be combined only with the
B<-id> argument.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -ndumps

Displays the Backup Database record for each of the specified number of
dumps that were most recently performed. If the database contains fewer
dumps than are requested, the output includes the records for all existing
dumps. Do not combine this argument with the B<-id> or
B<-verbose> options; omit all options to display the records for
the last 10 dumps.

=item -id

Specifies the dump ID number of a single dump for which to display the
Backup Database record. Precede the I<dump id> value with the
B<-id> switch; otherwise, the command interpreter interprets it
as the value of the B<-ndumps> argument. Combine this argument
with the B<-verbose> flag, but not with the B<-ndumps>
argument; omit all options to display the records for the last 10
dumps.

=item -verbose

Provides more detailed information about the dump specified with the
B<-id> argument, which must be provided along with it. Do not
combine this flag with the B<-ndumps> argument.

=item -localauth

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<backup> command
interpreter presents it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server
during mutual authentication. Do not combine this flag with the
B<-cell> argument. For more details, see the introductory
B<backup> reference page.

=item -cell

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<backup> reference page.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

If the -ndumps argument is provided, the output presents the
following information in table form, with a separate line for each dump:

=over 4

=item C<dumpid
>

The dump ID number.

=item C<parentid
>

The dump ID number of the dump's parent dump. A value of
C<0> (zero) identifies a full dump.

=item C<lv
>

The depth in the dump hierarchy of the dump level used to create the
dump. A value of C<0> (zero) identifies a full dump, in which
case the value in the C<parentid> field is also C<0>. A
value of C<1> or greater indicates an incremental dump made at the
corresponding level in the dump hierarchy.

=item C<created
>

The date and time at which the Backup System started the dump operation
that created the dump.

=item C<nt
>

The number of tapes that contain the data in the dump. A value of
C<0> (zero) indicates that the dump operation was terminated or
failed. Use the B<backup deletedump> command to remove such
entries.

=item C<nvols
>

The number of volumes from which the dump includes data. If a
volume spans tapes, it is counted twice. A value of C<0> (zero)
indicates that the dump operation was terminated or failed; the value in
the C<nt> field is also C<0> in this case.

=item C<dump name
>

The dump name in the form 

   I<volume_set_name>.I<dump_level_name> (I<initial_dump_ID>)

where I<volume_set_name> is the name of the volume set, and
I<dump_level_name> is the last element in the dump level pathname at
which the volume set was dumped.

The I<initial_dump_ID>, if displayed, is the dump ID of the initial
dump in the dump set to which this dump belongs. If there is no value
in parentheses, the dump is the initial dump in a dump set that has no
appended dumps.

=back

If the -id argument is provided alone, the first line of output
begins with the string C<Dump> and reports information for the entire
dump in the following fields:

=over 4

=item C<id
>

The dump ID number.

=item C<level
>

The depth in the dump hierarchy of the dump level used to create the
dump. A value of C<0> (zero) identifies a full dump. A
value of C<1> (one) or greater indicates an incremental dump made at
the specified level in the dump hierarchy.

=item C<volumes
>

The number of volumes for which the dump includes data.

=item C<created
>

The date and time at which the dump operation began.

=back

If an XBSA server was the backup medium for the dump (rather than a tape
device or backup data file), the following line appears next:

   Backup Service: I<XBSA_program>: Server: I<hostname>

where I<XBSA_program> is the name of the XBSA-compliant program and
I<hostname> is the name of the machine on which the program runs.

Next the output includes an entry for each tape that houses volume data
from the dump. Following the string C<Tape>, the first two
lines of each entry report information about that tape in the following
fields:

=over 4

=item C<name
>

The tape's permanent name if it has one, or its AFS tape name
otherwise, and its tape ID number in parentheses.

=item C<nVolumes
>

The number of volumes for which this tape includes dump data.

=item C<created
>

The date and time at which the Tape Coordinator began writing data to this
tape.

=back

Following another blank line, the tape-specific information concludes with
a table that includes a line for each volume dump on the tape. The
information appears in columns with the following headings:

=over 4

=item C<Pos
>

The relative position of each volume in this tape or file. On a
tape, the counter begins at position 2 (the tape label occupies position 1),
and increments by one for each volume. For volumes in a backup data
file, the position numbers start with 1 and do not usually increment only by
one, because each is the ordinal of the 16 KB offset in the file at which the
volume's data begins. The difference between the position numbers
therefore indicates how many 16 KB blocks each volume's data
occupies. For example, if the second volume is at position 5 and the
third volume in the list is at position 9, that means that the dump of the
second volume occupies 64 KB (four 16-KB blocks) of space in the file.

=item C<Clone time
>

For a backup or read-only volume, the time at which it was cloned from its
read/write source. For a Read/Write volume, it is the same as the dump
creation date reported on the first line of the output.

=item C<Nbytes
>

The number of bytes of data in the dump of the volume.

=item C<Volume
>

The volume name, complete with C<.backup> or
C<.readonly> extension if appropriate.

=back

If both the B<-id> and -verbose options are provided,
the output is divided into several sections:

=over 4

=item *

The first section, headed by the underlined string C<Dump>,
includes information about the entire dump. The fields labeled
C<id>, C<level>, C<created>, and C<nVolumes>
report the same values (though in a different order) as appear on the first
line of output when the B<-id> argument is provided by itself.
Other fields of potential interest to the backup operator are: 


=over 4

=item C<Group id
>

The dump's I<group ID number>, which is recorded in the
dump's Backup Database record if the B<GROUPID> instruction
appears in the Tape Coordinator's B<
/usr/afs/backup/CFG_>I<tcid> file when the dump is created.

=item C<maxTapes
>

The number of tapes that contain the dump set to which this dump
belongs.

=item C<Start Tape Seq
>

The ordinal of the tape on which this dump begins in the set of tapes that
contain the dump set.

=back

=item *

For each tape that contains data from this dump, there follows a section
headed by the underlined string C<Tape>. The fields labeled
C<name>, C<written>, and C<nVolumes> report the same
values (though in a different order) as appear on the second and third lines
of output when the B<-id> argument is provided by itself. Other
fields of potential interest to the backup operator are: 


=over 4

=item C<expires
>

The date and time when this tape can be recycled, because all dumps it
contains have expired.

=item C<nMBytes Data and C<nBytes Data>
>

Summed together, these fields represent the total amount of dumped data
actually from volumes (as opposed to labels, filemarks, and other
markers).

=item C<KBytes Tape Used
>

The number of kilobytes of tape (or disk space, for a backup data file)
used to store the dump data. It is generally larger than the sum of the
values in the C<nMBytes Data> and C<nBytes Data> fields,
because it includes the space required for the label, file marks and other
markers, and because the Backup System writes data at 16 KB offsets, even if
the data in a given block doesn't fill the entire 16 KB.

=back

=item *

For each volume on a given tape, there follows a section headed by the
underlined string C<Volume>. The fields labeled
C<name>, C<position>, C<clone>, and C<nBytes>
report the same values (though in a different order) as appear in the table
that lists the volumes in each tape when the B<-id> argument is
provided by itself. Other fields of potential interest to the backup
operator are: 


=over 4

=item C<id
>

The volume ID.

=item C<tape
>

The name of the tape containing this volume data.

=back

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example displays information about the last five dumps:

   % backup dumpinfo -ndumps 5
      dumpid   parentid lv created          nt nvols dump name
   924424000          0 0  04/18/1999 04:26  1    22 usr.sun (924424000)
   924685000  924424000 1  04/21/1999 04:56  1    62 usr.wed (924424000)
   924773000  924424000 1  04/22/1999 05:23  1    46 usr.thu (924424000)
   924860000  924424000 1  04/23/1999 05:33  1    58 usr.fri (924424000)
   925033000          0 0  04/25/1999 05:36  2    73 sys.week

The following example displays a more detailed record for a single
dump.

   % backup dumpinfo -id 922097346
   Dump: id 922097346, level 0, volumes 1, created Mon Mar 22 05:09:06 1999
   Tape: name monday.user.backup (922097346)
   nVolumes 1, created 03/22/1999 05:09
    Pos       Clone time   Nbytes Volume
      1 03/22/1999 04:43 27787914 user.pat.backup

The following example displays even more detailed information about the
dump displayed in the previous example (dump ID 922097346). This
example includes only one exemplar of each type of section (C<Dump>,
C<Tape>, and C<Volume>):

   % backup dumpinfo -id 922097346 -verbose
   Dump
   ----
   id = 922097346
   Initial id = 0
   Appended id = 922099568
   parent = 0
   level = 0
   flags = 0x0
   volumeSet = user
   dump path = /monday1
   name = user.monday1
   created = Mon Mar 22 05:09:06 1999
   nVolumes = 1
   id  = 0
   tapeServer =
   format= user.monday1.%d
   maxTapes = 1
   Start Tape Seq = 1
   name = pat
   instance =
   cell =
   Tape
   ----
   tape name = monday.user.backup
   AFS tape name = user.monday1.1
   flags = 0x20
   written = Mon Mar 22 05:09:06 1999
   expires = NEVER
   kBytes Tape Used = 121
   nMBytes Data = 0
   nBytes  Data = 19092
   nFiles = 0
   nVolumes = 1
   seq = 1
   tapeid = 0
   useCount = 1
   dump = 922097346
   Volume
   ------
   name = user.pat.backup
   flags = 0x18
   id = 536871640
   server =
   partition = 0
   nFrags = 1
   position = 2
   clone = Mon Mar 22 04:43:06 1999
   startByte = 0
   nBytes = 19092
   seq = 0
   dump = 922097346
   tape = user.monday1.1

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the /usr/afs/etc/UserList file on
every machine where the Backup Server is running, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser B<root> if the
B<-localauth> flag is included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(1)>,
L<backup_deletedump(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
