=head1 NAME

backup volinfo - Displays a volume's dump history from the Backup Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<backup volinfo> S<<< B<-volume> <I<volume name>> >>> [B<-localauth>]
    S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-help>]

B<backup voli> S<<< B<-v> <I<volume name>> >>> [B<-l>] S<<< [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<backup volinfo> command displays a dump history of the specified
volume, reporting information such as the date on which the volume was
dumped and the tapes that contain it. Include the C<.backup> extension on
the volume name if the backup version of the volume was dumped.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-volume> <I<volume name>>

Names the volume for which to display the dump history. Include the
C<.backup> or C<.readonly> extension if the backup or read-only version of
the volume was dumped.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<backup> command interpreter presents
it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> argument. For
more details, see L<backup(8)>.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<backup(8)>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output includes a line for each Backup Database dump record that
mentions the specified volume, order from most to least recent. The output
for each record appears in a table with six columns:

=over 4

=item dumpID

The dump ID of the dump that includes the volume.

=item lvl

The depth in the dump hierarchy of the dump level at which the volume was
dumped. A value of C<0> indicates a full dump. A value of C<1> or greater
indicates an incremental dump made at the specified depth in the dump
hierarchy.

=item parentid

The dump ID of the dump's parent dump. A value of C<0> indicates a full
dump, which has no parent; in this case, the value in the C<lvl> column is
also C<0>.

=item creation date

The date and time at which the Backup System started the dump operation
that created the dump.

=item clone date

For a backup or read-only volume, the time at which it was cloned from its
read/write source. For a read/write volume, the same as the value in the
C<creation date> field.

=item tape name

The name of the tape containing the dump: either the permanent tape name,
or an AFS tape name in the format
I<volume_set_name>.I<dump_level_name>.I<tape_index> where
I<volume_set_name> is the name of the volume set associated with the
initial dump in the dump set of which this tape is a part;
I<dump_level_name> is the name of the dump level at which the initial dump
was backed up; I<tape_index> is the ordinal of the tape in the dump
set. Either type of name can be followed by a dump ID in parentheses; if
it appears, it is the dump ID of the initial dump in the dump set to which
this appended dump belongs.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows part of the dump history of the Backup volume
C<user.smith.backup>:

   % backup volinfo -volume user.smith.backup
   DumpID    lvl parentID  creation date    clone date       tape name
   924600000 1   924427600 04/20/1999 05:20 04/20/1999 05:01 user_incr_2 (924514392)
   924514392 1   924427600 04/19/1999 05:33 04/19/1999 05:08 user_incr_2
   924427600 0           0 04/18/1999 05:26 04/18/1999 04:58 user_full_6
       .     .      .         .       .       .      .         .
       .     .      .         .       .       .      .         .

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(8)>,
L<backup_dumpinfo(8)>,
L<backup_volrestore(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
