=head1 NAME

backup jobs - Lists pending and running operations in interactive mode

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<jobs>  [-help]

B<j> [-h]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The (backup) jobs command lists the job ID number and status of
each B<backup> operation running or pending in the current interactive
session.

This command can be issued in interactive mode only. If the issuer
of the B<backup (interactive)> command included the
B<-localauth> flag, the B<-cell> argument, or both, those
settings apply to this command also.

To terminate operations that appear in the output, issue the (backup)
kill command and identify the operation to cancel with the job ID number
from this command's output.

To check the status of a Tape Coordinator, rather than of a certain
operation, use the B<backup status> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output always includes the expiration date and time of the tokens that
the B<backup> command interpreter is using during the current
interactive session, in the following format: 

   I<date>   I<time>: TOKEN EXPIRATION

If the execution date and time specified for a scheduled dump operation is
later than I<date time>, then its individual line (as described in the
following paragraphs) appears below this line to indicate that the current
tokens will not be available to it.

If the issuer of the backup command included the
B<-localauth> flag when entering interactive mode, the line instead
reads as follows:

   :  TOKEN NEVER EXPIRES

The entry for a scheduled dump operation has the following format:

   Job I<job_ID>:  I<timestamp>:  dump  I<volume_set>  I<dump_level>

where

=over 4

=item I<job_ID
>

Is a job identification number assigned by the Backup System.

=item I<timestamp
>

Indicates the date and time the dump operation is to begin, in the format
I<month>/I<date>/I<year>
I<hours>:I<minutes> (in 24-hour format)

=item I<volume_set
>

Indicates the volume set to dump.

=item I<dump_level
>

Indicates the dump level at which to perform the dump operation.

=back

The line for a pending or running operation of any other type has the
following format:

   Job I<job_ID>:  I<operation>  I<status>

where

=over 4

=item I<job_ID
>

Is a job identification number assigned by the Backup System.

=item I<operation
>

Identifies the operation the Tape Coordinator is performing, which is
initiated by the indicated command:

=over 4

=item C<Dump C<(>I<dump name>C<)>
>

Initiated by the backup dump command. The I<dump
name> has the following format: 

I<volume_set_name>.I<dump_level_name>

=item C<Restore
>

Initiated by the B<backup diskrestore>, backup
volrestore, or B<backup volsetrestore> command.

=item C<Labeltape C<(>I<tape_label>C<)>
>

Initiated by the backup labeltape command. The
I<tape_label> is the name specified by the B<backup labeltape>
command's B<-name> or B<-pname> argument.

=item C<Scantape
>

Initiated by the backup scantape command.

=item C<SaveDb
>

Initiated by the backup savedb command.

=item C<RestoreDb
>

Initiated by the backup restoredb command.

=back

=item I<status
>

Indicates the job's current status in one of the following
messages. If no message appears, the job is either still pending or has
finished.

=over 4

=item I<number C<Kbytes, volume> I<volume_name>
>

For a running dump operation, indicates the number of kilobytes copied to
tape or a backup data file so far, and the volume currently being
dumped.

=item I<number C<Kbytes, restore.volume>
>

For a running restore operation, indicates the number of kilobytes copied
into AFS from a tape or a backup data file so far.

=item C<[abort requested]
>

The (backup) kill command was issued, but the termination
signal has yet to reach the Tape Coordinator.

=item C<[abort sent]
>

The operation is canceled by the (backup) kill command.
Once the Backup System removes an operation from the queue or stops it from
running, it no longer appears at all in the output from the command.

=item C<[butc contact lost]
>

The backup command interpreter cannot reach the Tape
Coordinator. The message can mean either that the Tape Coordinator
handling the operation was terminated or failed while the operation was
running, or that the connection to the Tape Coordinator timed out.

=item C<[done]
>

The Tape Coordinator has finished the operation.

=item C<[drive wait]
>

The operation is waiting for the specified tape drive to become
free.

=item C<[operator wait]
>

The Tape Coordinator is waiting for the backup operator to insert a tape
in the drive.

=back

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows that two restore operations and one dump
operation are running (presumably on different Tape Coordinators) and that the
B<backup> command interpreter's tokens expire on 22 April 1999 at
10:45 am:

   backup> jobs
   Job 1: Restore, 1306 Kbytes, restore.volume
   Job 2: Dump (user.sunday1), 34 Kbytes, volume user.pat.backup
   Job 3: Restore, 2498 Kbytes, restore.volume
          04/22/1999 10:45: TOKEN EXPIRATION

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None. However, queuing any operation requires privilege, and it is
possible to issue this command only within the interactive session in which
the jobs are queued.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(1)>,
L<backup_interactive(1)>,
L<backup_kill(1)>,
L<backup_quit(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
