=head1 NAME

backup deldump - Deletes a dump level from the Backup Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<backup deldump> S<<< B<-dump> <I<dump level name>> >>> [B<-localauth>]
    S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-help>]

B<backup deld> S<<< B<-d> <I<dump level name>> >>> [B<-l>] 
    S<<< [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<backup deldump> command deletes the indicated dump level and all of
its child dump levels from the dump hierarchy in the Backup Database. Use
the B<backup listdumps> command to display the dump hierarchy.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-dump> <I<dump level name>>

Specifies the complete pathname of the dump level to delete.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<backup> command interpreter presents
it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> argument. For
more details, see L<backup(8)>.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<backup(8)>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command deletes the dump level C</sunday1/monday1> from the
dump hierarchy, along with any of its child dump levels.

   % backup deldump /sunday1/monday1

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on every
machine where the Backup Server is running, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser C<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(8)>,
L<backup_adddump(8)>,
L<backup_listdumps(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
