=head1 NAME

bos - Introduction to the bos command suite

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The commands in the bos command suite are the administrative
interface to the Basic OverSeer (BOS) Server, which runs on every file server
machine to monitor the other server processes on it. If a process
fails, the BOS Server can restart it automatically, taking into account
interdependencies between it and other processes. The BOS Server frees
system administrators from constantly monitoring the status of server machines
and processes.

There are several categories of commands in the bos command
suite:

=over 4

=item *

Commands to administer server process binary files: bos
getdate, B<bos install>, B<bos prune>, and B<bos
uninstall>


=item *

Commands to maintain system configuration files: bos
addhost, B<bos addkey>, B<bos adduser>, B<bos
listhosts>, B<bos listkeys>, B<bos listusers>, B<bos
removehost>, B<bos removekey>, B<bos removeuser>, and
B<bos setcellname>


=item *

Commands to start and stop processes: bos create,
B<bos delete>, B<bos restart>, B<bos shutdown>,
B<bos start>, B<bos startup>, and B<bos stop>


=item *

Commands to set and verify server process and server machine status:
B<bos getlog>, B<bos getrestart>, B<bos setauth>,
B<bos setrestart>, and B<bos status>


=item *

A command to restore file system consistency: bos salvage


=item *

Commands to obtain help: B<bos apropos> and bos
help


=back

The BOS Server and the bos commands use and maintain the
following configuration and log files:

=over 4

=item *

The /usr/afs/etc/CellServDB file lists the local cell's
database server machines. These machines run the Authentication,
Backup, Protection and Volume Location (VL) Server processes, which maintain
databases of administrative information. The database server processes
consult the file to learn about their peers, whereas the other server
processes consult it to learn where to access database information as
needed. To administer the B<CellServDB> file, use the following
commands: B<bos addhost>, B<bos listhosts>, B<bos
removehost>, and B<bos setcellname>.


=item *

The /usr/afs/etc/KeyFile file lists the server encryption keys
that the server processes use to decrypt tickets presented by client processes
and one another. To administer the B<KeyFile> file, use the
following commands: B<bos addkey>, B<bos listkeys>, and
B<bos removekey>.


=item *

The /usr/afs/etc/ThisCell file defines the cell to which the
server machine belongs for the purposes of server-to-server
communication. Administer it with the B<bos setcellname>
command. There is also a B</usr/vice/etc/ThisCell> file that
defines the machine's cell membership with respect to the AFS command
suites and Cache Manager access to AFS data.


=item *

The /usr/afs/etc/UserList file lists the user name of each
administrator authorized to issue privileged B<bos> and B<vos>
commands. To administer the B<UserList> file, use the following
commands: B<bos adduser>, B<bos listusers>, and B<bos
removeuser>.


=item *

The /usr/afs/local/BosConfig file defines which AFS server
processes run on the server machine, and whether the BOS Server restarts them
automatically if they fail. It also defines when all processes restart
automatically (by default once per week), and when the BOS Server restarts
processes that have new binary files (by default once per day). To
administer the B<BosConfig> file, use the following commands:
B<bos create>, B<bos delete>, B<bos getrestart>,
B<bos setrestart>, B<bos start>, and B<bos
stop>.


=item *

The /usr/afs/log/BosLog file records important operations the
BOS Server performs and error conditions it encounters.


=back

For more details, see the reference page for each file.

=head1 OPTIONS

The following arguments and flags are available on many commands in the
B<bos> suite. The reference page for each command also lists
them, but they are described here in greater detail.
L<(1)>
L<(1)>
L<(1)>

=over 4

=item -cell <I<cell name>
>

Names the cell in which to run the command. It is acceptable to
abbreviate the cell name to the shortest form that distinguishes it from the
other entries in the B</usr/vice/etc/CellServDB> file on the local
machine. If the B<-cell> argument is omitted, the command
interpreter determines the name of the local cell by reading the following in
order: 

=item *

The value of the AFSCELL environment variable


=item *

The local /usr/vice/etc/ThisCell file


Do not combine the B<-cell> and -localauth
options. A command on which the B<-localauth> flag is included
always runs in the local cell (as defined in the server machine's local
B</usr/afs/etc/ThisCell> file), whereas a command on which the
B<-cell> argument is included runs in the specified foreign
cell.
L<(1)>

=item -help

Prints a command's online help message on the standard output
stream. Do not combine this flag with any of the command's other
options; when it is provided, the command interpreter ignores all other
options, and only prints the help message.

=item L<(1)
B<-localauth>
>

Constructs a server ticket using the server encryption key with the
highest key version number in the local B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile>
file. The B<bos> command interpreter presents the ticket, which
never expires, to the BOS Server during mutual authentication. 

Use this flag only when issuing a command on a server machine; client
machines do not usually have a B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file.
The issuer of a command that includes this flag must be logged on to the
server machine as the local superuser B<root>. The flag is
useful for commands invoked by an unattended application program, such as a
process controlled by the UNIX B<cron> utility or by a cron entry in
the machine's B</usr/afs/local/BosConfig> file. It is also
useful if an administrator is unable to authenticate to AFS but is logged in
as the local superuser B<root>. 

Do not combine the B<-cell> and -localauth
options. A command on which the B<-localauth> flag is included
always runs in the local cell (as defined in the server machine's local
B</usr/afs/etc/ThisCell> file), whereas a command on which the
B<-cell> argument is included runs in the specified foreign
cell. Also, do not combine the B<-localauth> and
B<-noauth> flags.

=item L<(1)
B<-noauth>
>

Establishes an unauthenticated connection to the BOS Server, in which the
BOS Server treats the issuer as the unprivileged user
B<anonymous>. It is useful only when authorization checking is
disabled on the server machine (during the installation of a file server
machine or when the B<bos setauth> command has been used during other
unusual circumstances). In normal circumstances, the BOS Server allows
only privileged users to issue commands that change the status of a server or
configuration file, and refuses to perform such an action even if the
B<-noauth> flag is provided. Do not combine the
B<-noauth> and B<-localauth> flags.

=item -server <I<machine name>>
L<(1)>
>

Indicates the AFS server machine on which to run the command.
Identify the machine by its IP address in dotted decimal format, its
fully-qualified host name (for example, B<fs1.abc.com>),
or by an abbreviated form of its host name that distinguishes it from other
machines. Successful use of an abbreviated form depends on the
availability of a name service (such as the Domain Name Service or a local
host table) at the time the command is issued.

For the commands that alter the administrative files shared by all server
machines in the cell (the B<bos addhost>, B<bos addkey>,
B<bos adduser>, B<bos removehost>, B<bos removekey>,
and B<bos removeuser> commands), the appropriate machine depends on
whether the cell uses the United States or international version of AFS:

=over 4

=item *

If the cell runs the United States edition of AFS and (as recommended)
uses the Update Server to distribute the contents of the
B</usr/afs/etc> directory, provide the name of the system control
machine. After issuing the command, allow up to five minutes for the
Update Server to distribute the changed file to the other AFS server machines
in the cell. If the specified machine is not the system control machine
but is running an B<upclientetc> process that refers to the system
control machine, then the change will be overwritten when the process next
brings over the relevant file from the system control machine.


=item *

If the cell runs the international edition of AFS, do not use the Update
Server to distribute the contents of the B</usr/afs/etc>
directory. Instead, repeatedly issue the command, naming each of the
cell's server machines in turn. To avoid possible inconsistency
problems, finish issuing the commands within a fairly short time.


=back

=back

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

To issue any bos command that changes a configuration file or
alters process status, the issuer must be listed in the
B</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the server machine named by the
B<-server> argument. Alternatively, if the
B<-localauth> flag is included the issuer must be logged on as the
local superuser B<root>.

To issue a bos command that only displays information (other
than the B<bos listkeys> command), no privilege is required.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<BosConfig(1)>,
L<CellServDB (client version)(1)>

L<CellServDB (server version)(1)>

L<KeyFile(1)>,
L<ThisCell (client version)(1)>

L<ThisCell (server version)(1)>

L<UserList(1)>,
L<bos_addhost(1)>,
L<bos_addkey(1)>,
L<bos_adduser(1)>,
L<bos_apropos(1)>,
L<bos_create(1)>,
L<bos_delete(1)>,
L<bos_exec(1)>,
L<bos_getdate(1)>,
L<bos_getlog(1)>,
L<bos_getrestart(1)>,
L<bos_help(1)>,
L<bos_install(1)>,
L<bos_listhosts(1)>,
L<bos_listkeys(1)>,
L<bos_listusers(1)>,
L<bos_prune(1)>,
L<bos_removehost(1)>,
L<bos_removekey(1)>,
L<bos_removeuser(1)>,
L<bos_restart(1)>,
L<bos_salvage(1)>,
L<bos_setauth(1)>,
L<bos_setcellname(1)>,
L<bos_setrestart(1)>,
L<bos_shutdown(1)>,
L<bos_start(1)>,
L<bos_startup(1)>,
L<bos_status(1)>,
L<bos_stop(1)>,
L<bos_uninstall(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
