=head1 NAME

bos setauth - Sets authorization checking requirements for all server processes

=head1 SYNOPSIS

bos setauth -server <I<machine name>>  
B<-authrequired> <I<on or off: authentication required for admin requests>>
     [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-noauth>]  [B<-localauth>]  [-help]

bos seta -s <I<machine name>>
B<-a> <I<on or off: authentication required for admin requests>>  
         [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [-h]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The bos setauth command enables or disables authorization
checking on the server machine named by the B<-server>
argument. When authorization checking is enabled (the normal case), the
AFS server processes running on the machine verify that the issuer of a
command meets its privilege requirements. When authorization checking
is disabled, server processes perform any action for anyone, including the
unprivileged user B<anonymous>; this security exposure precludes
disabling of authorization checking except during installation or
emergencies.

To indicate to the server processes that authorization checking is
disabled, the BOS Server creates the zero-length file
B</usr/afs/local/NoAuth> on its local disk. All AFS server
processes constantly monitor for the B<NoAuth> file's presence
and do not check for authorization when it is present. The BOS Server
removes the file when this command is used to reenable authorization
checking.

=head1 CAVEATS

Do not create the NoAuth file directly, except when directed by
instructions for dealing with emergencies (doing so requires being logged in
as the local superuser B<root>). Use this command
instead.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -server
>

Indicates the server machine on which to enable or disable authorization
checking. Identify the machine by IP address or its host name (either
fully-qualified or abbreviated unambiguously). For details, see the
introductory reference page for the B<bos> command suite.

=item -authrequired
>

Enables authorization checking if the value is on, or disables
it if the value is B<off>.

=item -cell
>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<bos> reference page.

=item -noauth
>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the
issuer. Do not combine this flag with the B<-localauth>
flag. For more details, see the introductory B<bos> reference
page.

=item -localauth
>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<bos> command
interpreter presents the ticket to the BOS Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> or
B<-noauth> options. For more details, see the introductory
B<bos> reference page.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example disables authorization checking on the machine
B<fs7.abc.com>:

   % bos setauth -server fs7.abc.com -authrequired off

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the /usr/afs/etc/UserList file on
the machine named by the B<-server> argument, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser B<root> if the
B<-localauth> flag is included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<KeyFile(1)>,
L<NoAuth(1)>,
L<UserList(1)>,
L<bos(1)>,
L<bos_restart(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
