=head1 NAME

bos stop - Stops a process after changing its status flag in the
B</usr/afs/local/BosConfig> file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bos stop -server> <I<machine name>>  -instance <I<server process name>>+ 
[B<-wait>]  [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-noauth>]  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-help>]

B<bos sto -s> <I<machine name>>  -i <I<server process name>>+
[B<-w>]  [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The bos stop command sets the status flag for each process
specified with the B<-instance> argument to C<NotRun> in the
B</usr/afs/local/BosConfig> file on the server machine named by the
B<-server> argument, then stops it.

To stop a process without changing its BosConfig status flag,
use the B<bos shutdown> command instead.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -server
>

Indicates the server machine on which to stop processes. Identify
the machine by IP address or its host name (either fully-qualified or
abbreviated unambiguously). For details, see the introductory reference
page for the B<bos> command suite.

=item -instance
>

Names each process to stop. Use the process name assigned with the
B<-instance> argument to the B<bos create> command. The
output from the B<bos status> command lists the names.

=item -wait
>

Delays the return of the command shell prompt until all processes actually
stop. If this argument is omitted, the prompt returns almost
immediately even if all processes are not stopped.

=item -cell
>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<bos> reference page.

=item -noauth
>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the
issuer. Do not combine this flag with the B<-localauth>
flag. For more details, see the introductory B<bos> reference
page.

=item -localauth
>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<bos> command
interpreter presents the ticket to the BOS Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> or
B<-noauth> options. For more details, see the introductory
B<bos> reference page.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example command stops the upserver and
B<runntp> on the machine B<fs7.abc.com>.

   % bos stop -server fs7.abc.com -instance upserver runntp

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the /usr/afs/etc/UserList file on
the machine named by the B<-server> argument, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser B<root> if the
B<-localauth> flag is included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<BosConfig(1)>,
L<KeyFile(1)>,
L<UserList(1)>,
L<bos(1)>,
L<bos_create(1)>,
L<bos_shutdown(1)>,
L<bos_status(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
