=head1 NAME

bos startup - Starts a process without changing its status flag in the
B</usr/afs/local/BosConfig> file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bos startup -server> <I<machine name>>  [-instance <I<instances>>+] 
[B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-noauth>]  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-help>]

B<bos startu -s> <I<machine name>>  [-i <I<instances>>+]  
[B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The bos startup command starts, on the server machine named by
the B<-server> argument, either 

=over 4

=item *

All AFS server processes not currently running but marked with the
C<Run> status flag in the B</usr/afs/local/BosConfig> file


=item *

Each process specified by -instance argument, even if its
status flag in the B<BosConfig> file is C<NotRun>.


=back

To start a process and set its BosConfig status flag to
C<Run>, use the B<bos start> command instead.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -server
>

Indicates the server machine on which to start processes. Identify
the machine by IP address or its host name (either fully-qualified or
abbreviated unambiguously). For details, see the introductory reference
page for the B<bos> command suite.

=item -instance
>

Names each process to start. Use the process name assigned with the
B<-instance> argument to the B<bos create> command. The
output from the B<bos status> command lists the names.

=item -cell
>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<bos> reference page.

=item -noauth
>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the
issuer. Do not combine this flag with the B<-localauth>
flag. For more details, see the introductory B<bos> reference
page.

=item -localauth
>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<bos> command
interpreter presents the ticket to the BOS Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> or
B<-noauth> options. For more details, see the introductory
B<bos> reference page.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command starts all processes marked with status flag
C<Run> in the B<BosConfig> file on the machine
B<fs3.abc.com> that are not currently running.

   % bos startup fs3.abc.com

The following command starts the B<buserver>, kaserver,
B<ptserver>, and B<vlserver> processes running on the machine
B<db2.abc.com>, even if their status flags in the
B<BosConfig> file are C<NotRun>.

   % bos startup -server db2.abc.com -instance buserver kaserver ptserver vlserver

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the /usr/afs/etc/UserList file on
the machine named by the B<-server> argument, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser B<root> if the
B<-localauth> flag is included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<BosConfig(1)>,
L<KeyFile(1)>,
L<UserList(1)>,
L<bos(1)>,
L<bos_create(1)>,
L<bos_start(1)>,
L<bos_status(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
