=head1 NAME

bos prune - Removes obsolete files from /usr/afs/bin and /usr/afs/logs

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<bos prune> S<<< B<-server> <I<machine name>> >>> [B<-bak>] [B<-old>] [B<-core>]
    [B<-all>] S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-noauth>] [B<-localauth>]
    [B<-help>]

B<bos p> S<<< B<-s> <I<machine name>> >>> [B<-b>] [B<-o>] [B<-co>] [B<-a>]
    S<<< [B<-ce> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-n>] [B<-l>] [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<bos prune> command removes files from the local disk of the server
machine named by the B<-server> argument, as specified by one or more of
the following flags provided on the command line:

=over 4

=item *

The B<-bak> flag removes all files from the F</usr/afs/bin> directory that
have a C<.BAK> extension.

=item *

The B<-old> flag removes all files from the F</usr/afs/bin> directory that
have a C<.OLD> extension.

=item *

The B<-core> flag removes all files from the F</usr/afs/logs> directory
that have a C<core.> prefix.

=item *

The B<-all> flag removes all three types of files at once.

=back

(If none of these flags are included, the command appears to succeed, but
removes no files at all.)

To display the timestamp on the current, C<.BAK>, and C<.OLD> versions of
one or more files, use the B<bos getdate> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> <I<machine name>>

Indicates the server machine from which to remove files. Identify the
machine by IP address or its host name (either fully-qualified or
abbreviated unambiguously). For details, see L<bos(8)>.

=item B<-bak>

Removes all files from the F</usr/afs/bin> directory that have a C<.BAK>
extension. Do not combine this flag and the B<-all> flag.

=item B<-old>

Removes all files from the F</usr/afs/bin> directory that have a C<.OLD>
extension. Do not combine this flag and the B<-all> flag.

=item B<-core>

Removes all files from the F</usr/afs/logs> directory that have a C<core.>
prefix. Do not combine this flag and the B<-all> flag.

=item B<-all>

Combines the effect of the B<-bak>, B<-old>, and B<-core> flags. Do not
combine this flag with any of those three.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<bos(8)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity C<anonymous> to the issuer. Do not
combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see
L<bos(8)>.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<bos> command interpreter presents the
ticket to the BOS Server during mutual authentication. Do not combine this
flag with the B<-cell> or B<-noauth> options. For more details, see
L<bos(8)>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example removes all files from the F</usr/afs/bin> directory
on the machine C<fs3.abc.com> that have a C<.BAK> or C<.OLD> extension.

   % bos prune -server fs3.abc.com -bak -old

The following example removes all files from the F</usr/afs/bin> directory
on the machine C<db2.abc.com> that have a C<.BAK> or C<.OLD> extension,
and all files from the F</usr/afs/logs> directory that have a C<core.>
prefix.

   % bos prune -server db2.abc.com -all

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the
machine named by the B<-server> argument, or must be logged onto a server
machine as the local superuser C<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<KeyFile(5)>,
L<UserList(5)>,
L<bos(8)>,
L<bos_getdate(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
