=head1 NAME

bos uninstall - Reverts to the former version of a process's binary file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bos uninstall -server> <I<machine name>>  -file <I<files to uninstall>>+ 
[B<-dir> <I<destination dir>>]  [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]  
              [B<-noauth>]  [B<-localauth>]  [-help]

B<bos u -s> <I<machine name>>  B<-f> <I<files to uninstall>>+  [-d <I<destination dir>>] 
[B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The bos uninstall command replaces each binary file specified by
the B<-file> argument with its C<.BAK>version on the
server machine named by the B<-server> argument, which is normally the
binary distribution machine for its CPU/operating system type. It also
changes the extension on the current C<.OLD> version (if any)
to C<.BAK>. Each binary file must reside in the local
B</usr/afs/bin> directory unless the B<-dir> argument names an
alternate directory.

To start using the reverted binary immediately, issue the bos
restart command. Otherwise, the BOS Server automatically restarts
the process at the time defined in the B</usr/afs/local/BosConfig>
file; use the B<bos getrestart> command to display the time and
the B<bos setrestart> time to set it.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -server
>

Indicates the binary distribution machine on which to revert to the
C<.BAK> version of binaries. Identify the machine by IP
address or its host name (either fully-qualified or abbreviated
unambiguously). For details, see the introductory reference page for
the B<bos> command suite. 

If the machine is not a binary distribution machine and is running an
B<upclientbin> process, then the files are overwritten the next time
the B<upclientbin> process fetches the corresponding file from the
distribution machine (by default within five minutes).

=item -file
>

Names each binary file to replace with its C<.BAK>
version.

=item -dir
>

Provides the complete pathname of the local disk directory containing each
file named by the B<-file> argument. It is necessary only if
the binaries are not in the B</usr/afs/bin> directory.

=item -cell
>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<bos> reference page.

=item -noauth
>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the
issuer. Do not combine this flag with the B<-localauth>
flag. For more details, see the introductory B<bos> reference
page.

=item -localauth
>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<bos> command
interpreter presents the ticket to the BOS Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> or
B<-noauth> options. For more details, see the introductory
B<bos> reference page.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example command overwrites the
B</usr/afs/bin/kaserver> file on the machine
B<fs4.abc.com> with its C<.BAK>version,
and the current C<.BAK> version by the
C<.OLD>version.

   % bos uninstall -server fs4.abc.com -file kaserver

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the /usr/afs/etc/UserList file on
the machine named by the B<-server> argument, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser B<root> if the
B<-localauth> flag is included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<BosConfig(1)>,
L<KeyFile(1)>,
L<UserList(1)>,
L<bos(1)>,
L<bos_getrestart(1)>,
L<bos_restart(1)>,
L<bos_setrestart(1)>,
L<upclient(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
