=head1 NAME

bos setcellname - Sets the cell's name in the /usr/afs/etc/ThisCell and
B</usr/afs/etc/CellServDB> files

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bos setcellname -server> <I<machine name>>  -name <I<cell name>> 
[B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-noauth>]  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-help>]

B<bos setc -s> <I<machine name>>  B<-n> <I<cell name>>  [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [-h]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The bos setcellname command establishes the cell's name and
makes the server machine named by the B<-server> argument a member of
it, by recording the value of the B<-name> argument in two files which
it creates on the local disk:

=over 4

=item *

/usr/afs/etc/ThisCell


=item *

/usr/afs/etc/CellServDB. The cell name appears on the
first line in the file, preceded by the required C<>> symbol.
The machine name specified with the B<-server> argument appears on the
second line along with its IP address as obtained from the cell's naming
service. The machine is thus designated as the cell's first
database server machine.


=back

=head1 CAUTIONS

Issue this command only when the installing the cell's first AFS
server machine. The I<IBM AFS Quick Beginnings> explains how to
copy over the B<ThisCell> and B<CellServDB> files from this or
another appropriate machine during installation of additional server
machines.

Be sure to choose a satisfactory cell name when issuing this command,
because changing a cell's name is very complicated; for one thing,
it requires changing every password in the Authentication Database.
Consult the I<IBM AFS Administration Guide> for advice on choosing a
cell name. If changing the cell's name is absolutely necessary,
contact AFS Product Support for complete instructions.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -server
>

Indicates the server machine on which to set the cell name in the
B<ThisCell> and B<CellServDB> file. It is always the
first machine installed in a cell. Identify the machine by IP address
or its host name (either fully-qualified or abbreviated unambiguously).
For details, see the introductory reference page for the B<bos>
command suite.

=item -name
>

Defines the cell name, using standard Internet domain name format (the
actual domain name is usually appropriate). Examples are
B<abc.com> for the ABC Corporation and
B<stateu.edu> for the State University. It must match
the value of the B<-cell> argument, if that is provided.

=item -cell
>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<bos> reference page.

=item -noauth
>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the
issuer. Do not combine this flag with the B<-localauth>
flag. For more details, see the introductory B<bos> reference
page.

=item -localauth
>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<bos> command
interpreter presents the ticket to the BOS Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> or
B<-noauth> options. For more details, see the introductory
B<bos> reference page.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command defines the cell name abc.com in
the B<ThisCell> and B<CellServDB> files on the machine
B<fs1.abc.com> as it is installed as the cell's
first server machine.

   % bos setcellname -server fs1.abc.com -name abc.com

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

Authorization checking is normally turned off during installation, which is
the only recommended time to use this command; in this case no privilege
is required. If authorization checking is turned on, the issuer must be
listed in the B</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the machine named by
the B<-server> argument, or must be logged in as the local superuser
B<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<CellServDB (server version)(1)>

L<KeyFile(1)>,
L<ThisCell (server version)(1)>

L<UserList(1)>,
L<bos(1)>

I<IBM AFS Quick Beginnings>

I<IBM AFS Administration Guide>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
