=head1 NAME

bos start - Starts a process after setting its status flag in the
B</usr/afs/local/BosConfig> file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bos start -server> <I<machine name>>  -instance <I<server process name>>+ 
[B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-noauth>]  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-help>]

B<bos start -s> <I<machine name>>  -i <I<server process name>>+  
[B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The bos start command sets the status flag for each process
specified by the B<-instance> argument to C<Run> in the
B</usr/afs/local/BosConfig> file and in the BOS Server's memory
on the server machine named by the B<-server> argument, then starts
it. If the process is already running, the command's only effect
is to guarantee that the status flag is C<Run>; it does not
restart the process.

To start a process without changing its status flag in the
B<BosConfig> file, use the B<bos startup> command
instead.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -server
>

Indicates the server machine on which to start processes. Identify
the machine by IP address or its host name (either fully-qualified or
abbreviated unambiguously). For details, see the introductory reference
page for the B<bos> command suite.

=item -instance
>

Names each process to start. Use the process name assigned with the
B<-instance> argument to the B<bos create> command. The
output from the B<bos status> command lists the names.

=item -cell
>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<bos> reference page.

=item -noauth
>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the
issuer. Do not combine this flag with the B<-localauth>
flag. For more details, see the introductory B<bos> reference
page.

=item -localauth
>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<bos> command
interpreter presents the ticket to the BOS Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> or
B<-noauth> options. For more details, see the introductory
B<bos> reference page.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command changes the status flag for the
B<upclientbin> and B<upclientetc> processes to C<Run>
in the B<BosConfig> file on the machine
B<fs6.abc.com> and starts them running.

   % bos start -server fs6.abc.com -instance upclientbin upclientetc

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the /usr/afs/etc/UserList file on
the machine named by the B<-server> argument, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser B<root> if the
B<-localauth> flag is included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<BosConfig(1)>,
L<KeyFile(1)>,
L<UserList(1)>,
L<bos(1)>,
L<bos_create(1)>,
L<bos_startup(1)>,
L<bos_status(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
