=head1 NAME

bos getrestart - Displays the automatic restart times for server processes

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bos getrestart> B<-server> <I<machine name>> [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]
    [B<-noauth>] [B<-localauth>] [B<-help>]

B<bos getr> B<-s> <I<machine name>> [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] [B<-n>]
    [B<-l>] [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The bos getrestart command displays two restart times from the
F</usr/afs/local/BosConfig> file on the server machine named by the
B<-server> argument:

=over 4

=item *

The I<general restart> time at which the BOS Server process automatically
restarts itself and all processes marked with status C<Run> in the
F<BosConfig> file. The default is Sunday at 4:00 a.m.

=item *

The I<binary restart> time at which the BOS Server automatically restarts
any process for which the time stamp on the binary file in the
F</usr/afs/bin> directory is later than the last restart time for the
process. The default is 5:00 a.m. Use the B<bos getdate> command to list a
binary file's timestamp, and the B<-long> flag to the B<bos status>
command to display a process's most recent restart time.

=back

Use the B<bos setrestart> command to set the restart times.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> <I<machine name>>

Indicates the server machine for which to display the restart
times. Identify the machine by IP address or its host name (either
fully-qualified or abbreviated unambiguously). For details, see L<bos(8)>.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<bos(8)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity C<anonymous> to the issuer. Do not
combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see
L<bos(8)>.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<bos> command interpreter presents the
ticket to the BOS Server during mutual authentication. Do not combine this
flag with the B<-cell> or B<-noauth> options. For more details, see
L<bos(8)>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output consists of two lines:

   Server <machine_name> restarts at <time>
   Server <machine_name> restarts for new binaries at <time>

Possible values for <time> include:

=over 4

=item *

C<never>, indicating that the BOS Server never performs that type of
restart.

=item *

C<now>, indicating that the BOS Server performs that type of restart only
each time it restarts.

=item *

A specified day and time, indicating that the BOS Server performs that
type of restart once per week. Example: C<sun 4:00 am>.

=item *

A specified time, indicating that the BOS Server performs that type of
restart once per day. Examples: C<11:00 pm>, C<3:00 am>.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example displays the restart times for the machine
C<db2.abc.com>:

   % bos getrestart db2.abc.com
   Server db2.abc.com restarts at sun 4:00 am
   Server db2.abc.com restarts for new binaries at 2:15 am

In the following example, the issuer abbreviates the machine name
C<fs1.abc.com> to C<fs1>, relying on the cell's name server to resolve the
name. The output echoes the abbreviated form.

   % bos getrestart fs1
   Server fs1 restarts at sat 5:00 am
   Server fs1 restarts for new binaries at 11:30 pm

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<BosConfig(5)>,
L<KeyFile(5)>,
L<bos(8)>,
L<bos_getdate(8)>,
L<bos_setrestart(8)>,
L<bos_status(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
