=head1 NAME

bos listhosts - Displays the contents of the /usr/afs/etc/CellServDB file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bos listhosts -server> <I<machine name>>  [-cell <I<cell name>>]  
[B<-noauth>]  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-help>]

B<bos listh -s> <I<machine name>>  [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [-h]

B<bos getcell -server> <I<machine name>>  [-cell <I<cell name>>]  
[B<-noauth>]  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-help>]
    
B<bos getc -s> <I<machine name>>  [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [-h]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The bos listhosts command formats and displays the list of a
cell's database server machines from the
B</usr/afs/etc/CellServDB> file on the server machine named by the
B<-server> argument.

To alter the list of machines, use the B<bos addhost> and bos
removehost commands.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -server
>

Indicates the server machine from which to display the
B</usr/afs/etc/CellServDB> file. Identify the machine by IP
address or its host name (either fully-qualified or abbreviated
unambiguously). For details, see the introductory reference page for
the B<bos> command suite. 

For consistent performance in the cell, the output must be the same on
every server machine. The B<bos addhost> reference page
explains how to keep the machines synchronized.

=item -cell
>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<bos> reference page.

=item -noauth
>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the
issuer. Do not combine this flag with the B<-localauth>
flag. For more details, see the introductory B<bos> reference
page.

=item -localauth
>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<bos> command
interpreter presents the ticket to the BOS Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> or
B<-noauth> options. For more details, see the introductory
B<bos> reference page.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The first line of the output names the cell to which the server machine
belongs. Each of the following lines names a database server machine
for that cell.

The C<Host> number assigned to each database server machine is for
server-internal use only and is not the same as, nor necessarily related to,
the machine's IP address. The BOS Server assigned it as part of
performing the B<bos addhost> command.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command displays the database server machines listed in the
B</usr/afs/etc/CellServDB> file on the machine
B<fs7.abc.com>.

   % bos listhosts fs7.abc.com
   Cell name is abc.com
       Host 1 is db1.abc.com
       Host 2 is db2.abc.com
       Host 3 is db3.abc.com

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<CellServDB (server version)(1)>

L<KeyFile(1)>,
L<bos(1)>,
L<bos_addhost(1)>,
L<bos_removehost(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
