=head1 NAME

bos_setrestart - Sets when the BOS Server restarts processes

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<bos setrestart> S<<< B<-server> <I<machine name>> >>>
    S<<< B<-time> <I<time to restart server>> >>> [B<-general>] [B<-newbinary>]
    S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-noauth>] [B<-localauth>] [B<-help>]

B<bos setr> S<<< B<-s> <I<machine name>> >>> S<<< B<-t> <I<time to restart server>> >>>
    [B<-g>] [B<-ne>] S<<< [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-no>] [B<-l>] [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<bos setrestart> command records in the F</usr/afs/local/BosConfig>
file the times at which the BOS Server running on the server machine named
by the B<-server> argument performs two types of restarts:

=over 4

=item *

A I<general restart>. By default, once per week the BOS Server restarts
itself and then any AFS process marked with the C<Run> status flag in the
F<BosConfig> file (equivalent in effect to issuing the B<bos restart>
command with the B<-bosserver> flag). The default setting is 4:00
a.m. each Sunday morning.

=item *

A I<binary restart>. By default, once per day the BOS Server restarts any
currently running process for which the timestamp on the binary file in
the F</usr/afs/bin> directory is later than the time the process last
started or restarted. The default is 5:00 a.m. each day.

=back

=head1 CAUTIONS

Restarting a process makes it unavailable for a period of time. The B<fs>
process has potentially the longest outage, depending on how many volumes
the file server machine houses (the File Server and Volume Server reattach
each volume when they restart). The default settings are designed to
coincide with periods of low usage, so that the restarts disturb the
smallest possible number of users.

If the setting specified with the B<-time> argument is within one hour of
the current time, the BOS Server does not restart any processes until the
next applicable opportunity (the next day for binary restarts, or the next
week for general restarts).

The command changes only one type of restart setting at a time; issue the
command twice to change both settings.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> <I<machine name>>

Indicates the server machine on which to set a new restart time.  Identify
the machine by IP address or its host name (either fully-qualified or
abbreviated unambiguously). For details, see L<bos(8)>.

=item B<-time> <I<time to restart server>>

Specifies the restart time. By convention the general restart is defined
as weekly (specifies both a day and a time), and the binary restart is
defined as daily (specifies only a time). However, it is acceptable to
define a daily general restart or weekly binary restart.

There are four acceptable values for either type of restart setting:

=over 4

=item *

The string C<never>, which directs the BOS Server never to perform the
indicated type of restart.

=item *

The string C<now>, which directs the BOS Server to perform the restart
immediately and never again.

=item *

A time of day (the conventional type of value for the binary restart
time). Separate the hours and minutes with a colon (I<hh:MM>), an use
either 24-hour format, or a value in the range from C<1:00> through
C<12:59> with the addition of C<am> or C<pm>. For example, both C<14:30>
and C<"2:30 pm"> indicate 2:30 in the afternoon. Surround this parameter
with double quotes (C<"">) if it contains a space.

=item *

A day of the week and time of day, separated by a space and surrounded
with double quotes (C<"">). This is the conventional type of value for the
general restart. For the day, provide either the whole name or the first
three letters, all in lowercase letters (C<sunday> or C<sun>, C<thursday>
or C<thu>, and so on).  For the time, use the same format as when
specifying the time alone.

=back

If desired, precede a time or day and time definition with the string
C<every> or C<at>. These words do not change the meaning, but possibly
make the output of the B<bos getrestart> command easier to understand.

=item B<-general>

Sets the general restart time.

=item B<-newbinary>

Sets the binary restart time.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<bos(8)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity C<anonymous> to the issuer. Do not
combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see
L<bos(8)>.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<bos> command interpreter presents the
ticket to the BOS Server during mutual authentication. Do not combine this
flag with the B<-cell> or B<-noauth> options. For more details, see
L<bos(8)>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command sets the general restart time on the machine
C<fs4.abc.com> to Saturday at 3:30 am.

   % bos setrestart -server fs4.abc.com -time "sat 3:30" -general

The following command sets the binary restart time on the machine
C<fs6.abc.com> to 11:45 pm.

   % bos setrestart -server fs6.abc.com -time 23:45 -newbinary

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the
machine named by the B<-server> argument, or must be logged onto a server
machine as the local superuser C<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<BosConfig(5)>,
L<KeyFile(5)>,
L<UserList(5)>,
L<bos(8)>,
L<bos_getrestart(8)>,
L<bos_restart(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
