=head1 NAME

bos status - Displays the status of server processes

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bos status -server> <I<machine name>>  [-instance <I<server process name>>+]  
[B<-long>]  [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-noauth>]  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-help>] 

B<bos stat -s> <I<machine name>>  [-i <I<server process name>>+] 
[B<-lon>]  [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-loc>]  [B<-h>] 

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The bos status command reports the status of processes on the
server machine named by the B<-server> argument, either 

=over 4

=item *

All of the AFS server processes listed in the
F</usr/afs/local/BosConfig> file

=item *

Only these processes named by the -instance argument

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> <I<machine name>>

Indicates the server machine for which to report server process
status. Identify the machine by IP address or its host name (either
fully-qualified or abbreviated unambiguously). For details, see L<bos(8)>.

=item -instance

Names each process for which to report status. Use the process name
assigned with the B<-instance> argument to the B<bos>
command. The output from the B<bos status> command lists the
names.

=item -long

Produces more detailed status information.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<bos(8)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity C<anonymous> to the
issuer. Do not combine this flag with the B<-localauth>
flag. For more details, see L<bos(8)>.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<bos> command
interpreter presents the ticket to the BOS Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> or
B<-noauth> options. For more details, see L<bos(8)>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output for a process includes at least one line, which reports one of
the following as the process's current status:

=over 4

=item *

C<currently running normally>. The process's status
flag in the B<BosConfig> file is C<Run>. For
B<cron> entries, this message indicates only that the command is
scheduled to run, not necessarily that it was executing when the B<bos
status> command was issued.

=item *

C<disabled>. The process is not running, and its
B<BosConfig> status flag is C<NotRun>.

=item *

C<temporarily disabled>. The process is not running
although its status flag in the B<BosConfig> file is
C<Run>. Either an administrator used the B<bos
shutdown> command to stop it, or the

=item *

BOS Server stopped trying to restart it after numerous failed
attempts. In the second case, the auxiliary message is C<stopped for
too many errors>.

=item *

C<temporarily enabled>. The process is running although its
status flag in the B<BosConfig> file is C<NotRun>. An
administrator has used the B<bos startup> command to start it.

=back

If one of the following special circumstances applies to the process, the
indicated message appears in its entry:

=over 4

=item *

C<has core file>. The process failed and created a core
file in the F</usr/afs/logs> directory. If the BOS Server was
able to restart the process after the failure, the primary status is
C<currently running normally>.

=item *

C<stopped for too many  errors>. The reason for the primary
status C<temporarily  disabled> is that the BOS Server's attempts
to restart the process all failed.

=back

The entry for the fs process always includes a second line to
report the process's C<Auxiliary status>, which is one of the
following:

=over 4

=item *

C<file server running>. The File Server and Volume Server
components of the File Server process are running normally.

=item *

C<salvaging file system>. The Salvager is running, so the
File Server and Volume Server are temporarily disabled. The BOS Server
restarts them as soon as the Salvager is finished.

=back

The entry for a cron process includes an C<Auxiliary 
status> that reports when the command will next execute.

If the -long flag is used, each entry includes the following
additional information:

=over 4

=item *

The process's type (C<simple>, C<fs>, or
C<cron>).

=item *

The day and time the process last started or restarted.

=item *

The number of C<proc starts>, which is how many times the BOS
Server has started or restarted the process since it started itself.

=item *

The C<Last exit> time when the process (or one of the component
processes in the B<fs> process) last terminated. This line does
not appear if the process has not terminated since the BOS Server
started.

=item *

The C<Last error exit> time when the process (or one of the
component processes in the B<fs> process) last failed due to an
error. A further explanation such as C<due to shutdown request>
sometimes appears. This line does not appear if the process has not
failed since the BOS Server started.

=item *

Each command that the BOS Server invokes to start the process, as
specified by the B<-cmd> argument to the B<bos create>
command.

=item *

The pathname of the notifier program that the BOS Server invokes when the
process terminates (if any), as specified by the B<-notifier> argument
to the B<bos create> command.

=back

If the -long flag is provided and the BOS Server discovers that
the mode bits on files and subdirectories in the local F</usr/afs>
directory differ from the expected values, it prints the following warning
message:

   Bosserver reports inappropriate access on server directories

The following chart summarizes the expected mode bit settings. A
question mark indicates that the BOS Server does not check that bit.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example command displays the status of processes on the
machine B<fs3.abc.com>:

   % bos status fs3.abc.com
   Instance buserver, currently running normally.
   Instance kaserver, currently running normally.
   Instance ptserver, currently running normally.
   Instance vlserver, currently running normally.
   Instance fs, has core file, currently running normally.
       Auxiliary status is: file server running.
   Instance upserver, currently running normally.
   Instance runntp, currently running normally.

The following example command displays a detailed status report for the
B<fs> and B<ptserver> processes on the machine
B<fs1.abc.com>.

   % bos status -server fs1.abc.com -instance fs ptserver -long
   Instance fs, (type is fs), currently running normally.
      Auxiliary status is: file server running.
      Process last started at Wed Jan 7 5:34:49 1998 (3 proc starts)
      Last exit at Wed Jan 7 5:34:49 1998 
      Last error exit at Wed Jan 7 5:34:49 1998, due to shutdown 
          request
      Command 1 is '/usr/afs/bin/fileserver'
      Command 2 is '/usr/afs/bin/volserver'
      Command 3 is '/usr/afs/bin/salvager'
   Instance ptserver, (type is simple) currently running normally.
      Process last started at Tue Jan 6 8:29:19 1998 (1 proc starts)
      Command 1 is '/usr/afs/bin/ptserver'

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<BosConfig(1)>,
L<KeyFile(1)>,
L<bos(8)>,
L<bos_create(8)>,
L<bos_shutdown(8)>,
L<bos_startup(8)>,
L<bos_status(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
