=head1 NAME

bos getlog - Prints a server process's log file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bos getlog -server> <I<machine name>>  -file <I<log file to examine>>
[B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-noauth>]  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-help>]

B<bos getl -s> <I<machine name>>  B<-f> <I<log file to examine>>  [-c <I<cell name>>]     
[B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The bos getlog command displays on the standard output stream
the specified log file from the machine named by the B<-server>
argument. The BOS Server fetches the log file from the
B</usr/afs/logs> directory unless an alternate pathname is provided as
part of the B<-file> argument.

=head1 CAVEATS

Log files can grow quite large, especially for the database server
processes. To keep them to a manageable size, periodically either use
the UNIX B<rm> command to truncate each log file, or use the B<bos
restart> command to restart each process.

It can take up to five minutes after the file is removed or process
restarted for the space occupied by a log file to become available.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -server
>

Indicates the server machine from which to retrieve the log file.
Identify the machine by IP address or its host name (either fully-qualified or
abbreviated unambiguously). For details, see the introductory reference
page for the B<bos> command suite.

=item -file
>

Names the log file to display. If a filename only is provided, the
BOS Server fetches the log file from the B</usr/afs/logs>
directory; the standard values are: 

=over 4

=item AuthLog
>

The Authentication Server (kaserver) log file

=item BackupLog
>

The Backup Server (buserver) log file

=item BosLog
>

The BOS Server (bosserver) log file

=item FileLog
>

The File Server (fileserver) log file

=item SalvageLog
>

The Salvager (salvager) log file

=item VLLog
>

The Volume Location (VL) Server (vlserver) log file

=item VolserLog
>

The Volume Server (volserver) log file

=back

If a pathname and filename are provided, the log file is retrieved from the
indicated directory. Partial pathnames are interpreted relative to the
B</usr/afs/logs> directory.

=item -cell
>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<bos> reference page.

=item -noauth
>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the
issuer. Do not combine this flag with the B<-localauth>
flag. For more details, see the introductory B<bos> reference
page.

=item -localauth
>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<bos> command
interpreter presents the ticket to the BOS Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> or
B<-noauth> options. For more details, see the introductory
B<bos> reference page.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output is preceded by the line

   Fetching log file 'I<filename>'...

The remainder of the output depends on the particular log file.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example displays the FileLog file from the machine
B<fs3.abc.com>:

   % bos getlog -server fs3.abc.com -file FileLog
   Fetching log file 'FileLog'...
   Sun Nov 8 04:00:34 1998 File server starting
   Sun Nov 8 04:00:39 1998 Partition /vicepa:  attached 21 volumes; 
                           0 volumes not attached
   Sun Nov 8 04:00:40 1998 File Server started Sun Nov 8 04:00:40 
                           1998
   Mon Nov 9 21:45:06 1998 CB: RCallBack (zero fid probe in host.c) 
                           failed for host 28cf37c0.22811

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the /usr/afs/etc/UserList file on
the machine named by the B<-server> argument, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser B<root> if the
B<-localauth> flag is included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<bos(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
