=head1 NAME

bos listkeys - Displays the server encryption keys from the
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bos listkeys -server> <I<machine name>>  [B<-showkey>]  [-cell <I<cell name>>]  
[B<-noauth>]  [B<-localauth>]  [B<-help>]

B<bos listk -se> <I<machine name>>  [B<-sh>]  [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [-h]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The bos listkeys command formats and displays the list of server
encryption keys from the B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file on the server
machine named by the B<-server> argument.

To edit the list of keys, use the B<bos addkey> and bos
removekey commands.

=head1 CAUTIONS

Displaying actual keys on the standard output stream (by including the
B<-showkey> flag) is a security exposure. Displaying a checksum
is sufficient for most purposes.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -server
>

Indicates the server machine from which to display the KeyFile
file. Identify the machine by IP address or its host name (either
fully-qualified or abbreviated unambiguously). For details, see the
introductory reference page for the B<bos> command suite. 

For consistent performance in the cell, the output must be the same on
every server machine. The B<bos addkey> reference page explains
how to keep the machines synchronized.

=item -showkey
>

Displays the octal digits that constitute each key.

=item -cell
>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<bos> reference page.

=item -noauth
>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the
issuer. Do not combine this flag with the B<-localauth>
flag. For more details, see the introductory B<bos> reference
page.

=item -localauth
>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<bos> command
interpreter presents the ticket to the BOS Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> or
B<-noauth> options. For more details, see the introductory
B<bos> reference page.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output includes one line for each server encryption key listed in the
B<KeyFile> file, identified by its key version number.

If the -showkey flag is included, the output displays the actual
string of eight octal numbers that constitute the key. Each octal
number is a backslash and three decimal digits.

If the -showkey flag is not included, the output represents each
key as a checksum, which is a decimal number derived by encrypting a constant
with the key.

Following the list of keys or checksums, the string C<Keys last
changed> indicates when a key was last added to the B<KeyFile>
file. The words C<All done> indicate the end of the
output.

For mutual authentication to work properly, the output from the command
B<kas examine afs> must match the key or checksum with the same key
version number in the output from this command.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows the checksums for the keys stored in the
B<KeyFile> file on the machine
B<fs3.abc.com>.

   % bos listkeys fs3.abc.com
   key 1 has cksum 972037177
   key 3 has cksum 2825175022
   key 4 has cksum 260617746
   key 6 has cksum 4178774593
   Keys last changed on Mon Apr 12 11:24:46 1999.
   All done.

The following example shows the actual keys from the KeyFile
file on the machine B<fs6.abc.com>.

   % bos listkeys fs6.abc.com -showkey
   key 0 is '\040\205\211\241\345\002\023\211'
   key 1 is '\343\315\307\227\255\320\135\244'
   key 2 is '\310\310\255\253\326\236\261\211'
   Keys last changed on Wed Mar 31 11:24:46 1999.
   All done.

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the /usr/afs/etc/UserList file on
the machine named by the B<-server> argument, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser B<root> if the
B<-localauth> flag is included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<KeyFile(1)>,
L<UserList(1)>,
L<bos_addkey(1)>,
L<bos_removekey(1)>,
L<bos_setauth(1)>,
L<kas_examine(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
