=head1 NAME

bos listusers - Lists the privileged users from the /usr/afs/etc/UserList file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bos listusers -server> <I<machine name>>  [-cell <I<cell name>>]  
[B<-noauth>]   [B<-localauth>]   [B<-help>]

B<bos listu -s> <I<machine name>>  [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [-h]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The bos listusers command lists the user names from the
B</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the file server machine named by the
B<-server> argument. The users are authorized to issue
privileged B<bos> and B<vos> commands.

To edit the list of users, use the B<bos adduser> and bos
removeuser commands.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -server
>

Indicates the server machine from which to display the UserList
file. Identify the machine by IP address or its host name (either
fully-qualified or abbreviated unambiguously). For details, see the
introductory reference page for the B<bos> command suite. 

For consistent performance in the cell, the output must be the same on
every server machine. The B<bos adduser> reference page
explains how to keep the machines synchronized.

=item -cell
>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<bos> reference page.

=item -noauth
>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the
issuer. Do not combine this flag with the B<-localauth>
flag. For more details, see the introductory B<bos> reference
page.

=item -localauth
>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<bos> command
interpreter presents the ticket to the BOS Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> or
B<-noauth> options. For more details, see the introductory
B<bos> reference page.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output lists the user name of each user entitled to issue privileged
B<bos> and B<vos> commands.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example lists the users from UserList file on the
machine B<fs4.abc.com>. 

   % bos listusers fs4.abc.com
   SUsers are: pat smith jones terry

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<KeyFile(1)>,
L<UserList(1)>,
L<bos(1)>,
L<bos_adduser(1)>,
L<bos_removeuser(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
