=head1 NAME

bos install - Installs a new version of a binary file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bos install -server> <I<machine name>>  -file <I<files to install>>+
[B<-dir> <I<destination dir>>]  [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]  
            [B<-noauth>]  [B<-localauth>]  [-help]

B<bos i -s> <I<machine name>>  -f <I<files to install>>+
[B<-d> <I<destination dir>>]  [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  [B<-n>]  [B<-l>]  [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The bos install command copies each binary file specified with
the B<-file> argument to the local disk of the server machine named by
the B<-server> argument, which is normally the binary distribution
machine for its CPU/operating system type. The destination directory is
B</usr/afs/bin> unless the B<-dir> argument indicates an
alternate directory. The source file's UNIX mode bits are
preserved in the transfer.

If there is already a file of the same name in the destination directory,
the BOS Server automatically saves it by adding a C<.BAK>
extension. If there is a current C<.BAK> version at
least seven days old, it replaces the current C<.OLD>
version. If there is no current C<.OLD> version, the
current C<.BAK> version becomes the C<.OLD>
version automatically. The B<bos getdate> command displays the
timestamps on the current versions of the file.

To start using the new binary immediately, issue the bos restart
command. Otherwise, the BOS Server automatically restarts the process
at the time defined in the B</usr/afs/local/BosConfig> file; use
the B<bos getrestart> command to display the time and the B<bos
setrestart> time to set it.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -server
>

Indicates the binary distribution machine on which to install the new
binaries. Identify the machine by IP address or its host name (either
fully-qualified or abbreviated unambiguously). For details, see the
introductory reference page for the B<bos> command suite. 

If the machine is not a binary distribution machine and is running an
B<upclientbin> process, then the files are overwritten the next time
the B<upclientbin> process fetches the corresponding file from the
distribution machine (by default within five minutes).

=item -file
>

Specifies the complete pathname of each binary file to copy into the
destination directory. Each source directory can be on the local disk
or in AFS, in which case the issuer of the B<bos install> command must
have the necessary AFS access rights and the local machine must run the Cache
Manager. For the BOS Server to create C<.BAK> and
C<.OLD> versions, the last element in the pathname (the
filename) must match the name of a file in the destination directory.
The reference page for the B<bos create> command lists the standard
binary file names.

=item -dir
>

Provides the complete pathname of the local disk directory in which to
install binary files. It is necessary only if the destination directory
is not B</usr/afs/bin>.

=item -cell
>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see the
introductory B<bos> reference page.

=item -noauth
>

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the
issuer. Do not combine this flag with the B<-localauth>
flag. For more details, see the introductory B<bos> reference
page.

=item -localauth
>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
B</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<bos> command
interpreter presents the ticket to the BOS Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> or
B<-noauth> options. For more details, see the introductory
B<bos> reference page.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command copies the file
B</afs/abc.com/rs_aix42/usr/afs/bin/vlserver> to the file
B</usr/afs/bin/vlserver> on the machine
B<fs3.abc.com>, which is the binary distribution machine
for server machines running AIX 4.2 in the B<abc.com>
cell. The current version of the B</usr/afs/bin/vlserver> file
is moved to B</usr/afs/bin/vlserver.BAK>.

   % bos install -server fs3.abc.com    \     
                 -file /afs/abc.com/rs_aix42/usr/afs/bin/vlserver

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the /usr/afs/etc/UserList file on
the machine named by the B<-server> argument, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser B<root> if the
B<-localauth> flag is included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<BosConfig(1)>,
L<KeyFile(1)>,
L<UserList(1)>,
L<bos(1)>,
L<bos_getdate(1)>,
L<bos_getrestart(1)>,
L<bos_restart(1)>,
L<bos_setrestart(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
