=head1 NAME

bos getdate - Displays the time stamps on an AFS binary file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<bos getdate> S<<< B<-server> <I<machine name>> >>> S<<< B<-file> <I<files to check>>+ >>>
    S<<< [B<-dir> <I<destination dir>>] >>> S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>>
    [B<-noauth>] [B<-localauth>] [B<-help>]

B<bos getd> S<<< B<-s> <I<machine name>> >>> S<<< B<-f> <I<files to check>>+ >>>
    S<<< [B<-d> <I<destination dir>>] >>> S<<< [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-n>] [B<-l>]
    [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<bos getdate> command displays the time stamps on the current
version,C< .BAK> version (if any) and C<.OLD> version (if any) of each
binary file named by the B<-file> argument. (The BOS Server automatically
creates C<.BAK> and C<.OLD> versions when new binaries are installed with
the B<bos install> command.) The files must reside in the F</usr/afs/bin>
directory on the server machine named by the B<-server> argument unless
the B<-dir> argument indicates an alternate directory.

To revert to the C<.BAK> version of a binary, use the B<bos uninstall>
command. To remove obsolete binary files from the F</usr/afs/bin>
directory, use the B<bos prune> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> <I<machine name>>

Indicates the server machine from which to list binary files.  Identify
the machine by IP address or its host name (either fully-qualified or
abbreviated unambiguously). For details, see L<bos(8)>.

All server machines of the same AFS system type show the same timestamps
if the binaries were installed properly on the binary distribution machine
for this machine's system type, and if all other machines of that type are
running the appropriate C<upclientbin> process.

=item B<-file> <I<files to check>>+

Names each binary file to list.

=item B<-dir> <I<destination dir>>

Specifies the complete pathname of the local disk directory containing
each file named by the B<-file> argument. It is necessary only if the
files are not in the F</usr/afs/bin> directory.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<bos(8)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity C<anonymous> to the issuer. Do not
combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see
L<bos(8)>.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<bos> command interpreter presents the
ticket to the BOS Server during mutual authentication. Do not combine this
flag with the B<-cell> or B<-noauth> options. For more details, see
L<bos(8)>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

For each file specified with the -file argument, the output displays the
time stamp on the current (unmarked), C<.BAK>, and C<.OLD> version. The
output explicitly reports that a version does not exist, rather than
simply omitting it.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command examines the time stamps on the files with basename
C<kaserver> on the machine C<fs2.abc.com>:

   % bos getdate -server fs2.abc.com -file kaserver
   File /usr/afs/bin/kaserver dated Mon Jan 4 10:00:36 1999.
   .BAK file dated Wed Dec 9 18:55:04 1998, no .OLD file.

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<KeyFile(5)>,
L<bos(8)>,
L<bos_install(8)>,
L<bos_prune(8)>,
L<bos_uninstall(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
