=head1 NAME

bosserver - Initializes the BOS Server

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bosserver> [B<-noauth>] [B<-log>] [B<-enable_peer_stats>]
    [B<-enable_process_stats>] [B<-help>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The bosserver command initializes the Basic OverSeer (BOS) Server
(B<bosserver> process). In the conventional configuration, the binary file
is located in the F</usr/afs/bin> directory on a file server machine.

The BOS Server must run on every file server machine and helps to automate
file server administration by performing the following tasks:

=over 4

=item *

Monitors the other AFS server processes on the local machine, to make sure
they are running correctly.

=item *

Automatically restarts failed processes, without contacting a human
operator. When restarting multiple server processes simultaneously, the
BOS Server takes interdependencies into account and initiates restarts in
the correct order.

=item *

Processes commands from the bos suite that administrators issue to verify
the status of server processes, install and start new processes, stop
processes either temporarily or permanently, and restart halted processes.

=item *

Manages system configuration information: the files that list the cell's
server encryption keys, database server machines, and users privileged to
issue commands from the B<bos> and B<vos> suites.

=back

The BOS Server logs a default set of important events in the file
F</usr/afs/logs/BosLog>. To record the name of any user who performs a
privileged B<bos> command (one that requires being listed in the
F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file), add the B<-log> flag. To display the
contents of the B<BosLog> file, use the B<bos getlog> command.

The first time that the BOS Server initializes on a server machine, it
creates several files and subdirectories in the local F</usr/afs>
directory, and sets their mode bits to protect them from unauthorized
access. Each time it restarts, it checks that the mode bits still comply
with the settings listed in the following chart. A question mark indicates
that the BOS Server initially turns off the bit (sets it to the hyphen),
but does not check it at restart.

If the mode bits do not comply, the BOS Server writes the following
warning to the F<BosLog> file:

   Bosserver reports inappropriate access on server directories

However, the BOS Server does not reset the mode bits, so the administrator
can set them to alternate values if desired (with the understanding that
the warning message then appears at startup).

This command does not use the syntax conventions of the AFS command
suites. Provide the command name and all option names in full.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity C<anonymous> to the issuer, which is
useful only when authorization checking is disabled on the server machine
(for instance, during the installation of a file server machine.)

=item B<-log>

Records in the F</usr/afs/logs/BosLog> file the names of all users who
successfully issue a privileged B<bos> command (one that requires being
listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file).

=item B<-enable_peer_stats>

Activates the collection of Rx statistics and allocates memory for their
storage. For each connection with a specific UDP port on another machine,
a separate record is kept for each type of RPC (FetchFile, GetStatus, and
so on) sent or received. To display or otherwise access the records, use
the Rx Monitoring API.

=item B<-enable_process_stats>

Activates the collection of Rx statistics and allocates memory for their
storage. A separate record is kept for each type of RPC (FetchFile,
GetStatus, and so on) sent or received, aggregated over all connections to
other machines. To display or otherwise access the records, use the Rx
Monitoring API.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command initializes the BOS Server and logs the names of
users who issue privileged B<bos> commands.

   % bosserver -log &

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer most be logged onto a file server machine as the local
superuser C<root>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<BosConfig(5)>,
L<BosLog(5)>,
L<bos(8)>,
L<bos_create(8)>,
L<bos_exec(8)>,
L<bos_getlog(8)>,
L<bos_getrestart(8)>,
L<bos_restart(8)>,
L<bos_shutdown(8)>,
L<bos_start(8)>,
L<bos_startup(8)>,
L<bos_status(8)>,
L<bos_stop(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
