=head1 NAME

fssync-debug_stats - Displays various statistics

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<fssync-debug stats> S<<< B<-cmd> <I<subcommand>> >>>
    S<<< [B<-arg1> <I<arg1>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-arg2> <I<arg2>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-reason> <I<sync protocol reason code>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-programtype> <I<program type code>>] >>>
    [B<-help>]

B<fssync-debug s> S<<< B<-c> <I<subcommand>> >>>
    S<<< [B<-arg1> <I<arg1>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-arg2> <I<arg2>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-r> <I<sync protocol reason code>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-p> <I<program type code>>] >>>
    [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fssync-debug stats> command displays statistics
according to the value of the option B<-cmd>.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-cmd> <I<subcommand>>

Specifies statistics subcommand. Available subcommands are:

=over 4

=item *

B<pkg>    -- general volume package statistics

=item *

B<vicep>  -- vice partition statistics

=item *

B<hash>   -- volume hash chain statistics

=item *

B<hdr>    -- volume header cache statistics

=item *

B<vlru>   -- vlru generation statistics

=item *

B<help>   -- display list of available subcommands

=back

=item B<-arg1> <I<arg1>>

Specifies first optional argument, in the context of the
chosen subcommand. For I<vicep> statistics, it specifies
partition name; for I<hash> statistics, it specifies
hash bucket number; for I<vlru> statistics it specifies
vlru generation number.

=item B<-arg2> <I<arg2>>

Specifies second optional argument, in the context of
the chose subcommand. Currently, none of the subcommands
use it.

=item B<-reason> <I<sync protocol reason code>>

Specifies numeric sync protocol reason code.
Available codes are listed in OpenAFS source file
F<src/vol/fssync_inline.h>. For SYNC_REASON_NONE,
use B<-reason I<0>>.

=item B<-programtype> <I<program type code>>

Specifies program type code. Permitted values are
I<fileServer>,
I<volumeUtility>,
I<salvager>,
I<salvageServer>,
I<volumeServer> and
I<volumeSalvager>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have write access to the file server.
Usually, this means that the issuer must be the
local superuser C<root> on the file server machine.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fssync-debug_header(8)>,
L<fssync-debug_query(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2010 Davor Ocelic <docelic@spinlocksolutions.com>

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  This
man page was written by Davor Ocelic for OpenAFS, based on documentation
from Steven Jenkins, Tom Keiser and Simon Wilkinson.
