=head1 NAME

fstrace - Introduction to the fstrace command suite

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The commands in the B<fstrace> command suite are the interface that system
administrators employ to trace Cache Manager operations for debugging
purposes. Examples of Cache Manager operations are fetching file data or
the status information used to produce output for the UNIX B<ls> command.

The B<fstrace> command interpreter defines an extensive set of Cache
Manager operations as the C<cm> I<event set>.  When the event set is
activated, the Cache Manager writes a message to the C<cmfx> I<trace log>
in kernel memory each time it performs one of the defined operations. The
log expands only to a defined size (by default, 60 KB), after which it is
overwritten in a circular fashion (new trace messages overwrite the oldest
ones). If an operation of particular interest occurs, the administrator
can afterward display the log on the standard output stream or write it to
a file for later study. For more specific procedural instructions, see the
I<IBM AFS Administration Guide>.

There are several categories of commands in the B<fstrace> command suite:

=over 4

=item *

Commands to administer or display information about the trace log:
B<fstrace clear>, B<fstrace lslog>, B<fstrace setlog>.

=item *

Commands to set or display the status of the event set: B<fstrace lsset>
and B<fstrace setset>.

=item *

A command to display the contents of the trace log: B<fstrace dump>.

=item *

Commands to obtain help: B<fstrace apropos> and B<fstrace help>.

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

All B<fstrace> commands accept the following optional flag.  It is listed
in the command descriptions and described in detail here:

=over 4

=item B<-help>

Prints a command's online help message on the standard output stream. Do
not combine this flag with any of the command's other options; when it is
provided, the command interpreter ignores all other options, and only
prints the help message.

=back

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

To issue most B<fstrace> commands, the issuer must be logged on as the
local superuser C<root> on the machine that is generating the trace log.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fstrace_apropos(8)>,
L<fstrace_clear(8)>,
L<fstrace_dump(8)>,
L<fstrace_help(8)>,
L<fstrace_lslog(8)>,
L<fstrace_lsset(8)>,
L<fstrace_setlog(8)>,
L<fstrace_setset(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
