=head1 NAME

fstrace lslog - Displays information about a log

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<fstrace lslog> S<<< [B<-set> <I<set name>>+] >>> S<<< [B<-log> <I<log name>>] >>>
    [B<-long>] [B<-help>]

B<fstrace lsl> S<<< [B<-s> <I<set name>>+] >>> S<<< [B<-log> <I<log name>>] >>> [B<-lon>]
    [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fstrace lslog> command reports whether the C<cmfx> log is available
for use. If the B<-long> argument is included, the output reports the
log's defined size, and whether that amount of space is currently
allocated in kernel memory or not.

To change the C<cmfx> trace log's size, use the B<fstrace setlog>
command. To display or set whether space is allocated for it in kernel
memory, use the B<fstrace lsset> or B<fstrace setset> command to display
or set the state of the corresponding C<cm> event set, respectively.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-set> <I<set name>>+

Names the event set for which to display information about the
corresponding trace log. The only acceptable value is C<cm> (for which the
associated trace log is C<cmfx>). Provide either this argument or the
B<-log> argument, or omit both to display information about the C<cmfx>
log by default.

=item B<-log> <I<log name>>

Names the trace log about which to report. The only acceptable value is
C<cmfx>. Provide either this argument or the B<-set> argument, or omit
both to report on the C<cmfx> log by default.

=item B<-long>

Reports the defined size of the log in kilobyte units and whether that
amount of space is currently allocated in kernel memory.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

By default, the B<fstrace lslog> command displays only the name of the
available log, C<cmfx>, in the following format:

   Available logs:
   cmfx

When the B<-long> flag is included, the output also reports the defined
size of the log in kilobytes, and whether or not that amount of space is
currently allocated in kernel memory, in the following format:

   Available logs:
   cmfx : <log_size> kbytes (allocated | unallocated)

The C<allocated> state indicates that the indicated number of kilobytes is
reserved for the C<cmfx> trace log in kernel memory. The C<cm> event set's
state is either C<active> or C<inactive>, as reported by the B<fstrace
lsset> command, and set by the B<fstrace setset> command's B<-active> or
B<-inactive> flags respectively.

The C<unallocated> state indicates that no kernel memory is currently
reserved for the C<cmfx> trace log. The B<cm> event set's state is
C<dormant>, as reported by the B<fstrace lsset> command and set by the
B<fstrace setset> command's B<-dormant> flag. If the event set's state is
later changed to active or inactive, the number of kilobytes indicated as
<log_size> are again allocated in kernel memory.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example uses the -long flag to display information
about the C<cmfx> log:

   # fstrace lslog -log cmfx -long
   Available logs:
   cmfx : 60 kbytes (allocated)

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be logged in as the local superuser C<root>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fstrace(8)>,
L<fstrace_lsset(8)>,
L<fstrace_setlog(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
