=head1 NAME

fstrace_help - Displays help for fstrace commands

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<fstrace help> S<<< [B<-topic> <I<help string>>+] >>> [B<-help>]

B<fstrace h> S<<< [B<-t> <I<help string>>+] >>> [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fstrace help> command displays the complete online help entry (short
description and syntax statement) for each command operation code
specified by the B<-topic> argument. If the B<-topic> argument is omitted,
the output includes the first line (name and short description) of the
online help entry for every B<fstrace> command.

To list every fstrace command whose name or short description includes a
specified keyword, use the B<fstrace apropos> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-topic> <I<help string>>+

Indicates each command for which to display the complete online help
entry. Omit the B<fstrace> part of the command name, providing only the
operation code (for example, specify B<clear>, not B<fstrace clear>). If
this argument is omitted, the output briefly describes every B<fstrace>
command.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The online help entry for each B<fstrace> command consists of two or three
lines:

=over 4

=item *

The first line names the command and briefly describes its function.

=item *

The second line lists aliases for the command, if any.

=item *

The final line, which begins with the string C<Usage>, lists the command's
options in the prescribed order. Online help entries use the same symbols
(for example, brackets) as the reference pages in this document.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command displays the online help entry for the B<fstrace
setset> command:

   % fstrace help -topic setset
   fstrace setset: set state of event sets
   Usage: fstrace setset [-set <set_name>+] [-active] [-inactive]
   [-dormant] [-help]

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fstrace(8)>,
L<fstrace_apropos(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
