=head1 NAME

fstrace setset - Sets the status of an event set

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<fstrace setset> S<<< [B<-set> <I<set name>>+] >>> [B<-active>] [B<-inactive>]
    [B<-dormant>] [B<-help>]

B<fs set> S<<< [B<-s> <I<set name>>+] >>> [B<-a>] [B<-i>] [B<-d>] [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fstrace setset> command sets the status of the C<cm> kernel event
set on the local machine, which determines whether trace messages are
recorded in the log buffer in kernel memory.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-set> <I<set name>>+

Names the event set for which to set the status. The only acceptable value
C<cm>, which is also the default if this argument is omitted.

=item B<-active>

Enables tracing for the event set and allocates kernel memory for the
associated trace log buffer. Provide one of this flag, the B<-inactive>
flag, or the B<-dormant> flag.

=item B<-inactive>

Temporarily disables tracing for the event set, but does not change the
allocation of kernel memory for the associated trace log buffer.  Provide
one of this flag, the B<-active> flag, or the B<-dormant> flag.

=item B<-dormant>

Disables tracing for the event set and frees the kernel memory previously
allocated for the associated trace log buffer. Provide one of this flag,
the B<-active> flag, or the B<-inactive> flag.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example sets the cm event set's status to inactive:

   # fstrace setset -set cm -inactive

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be logged in as the local superuser C<root>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fstrace(8)>,
L<fstrace_lsset(8)>,
L<fstrace_setlog(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
