=head1 NAME

kas delete - Deletes an entry from the Authentication Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

kas delete -name <I<name of user>>  
[B<-admin_username> <I<admin principal to use for authentication>>]  
           [B<-password_for_admin> <I<admin password>>]  [-cell <I<cell name>>]  
           [-servers <I<explicit list of authentication servers>>+]  
           [B<-noauth>]  [-help] 

B<kas d -na> <I<name of user>>  [-a <I<admin principal to use for authentication>>] 
[B<-p> <I<admin password>>]  [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  
      [B<-s> <I<explicit list of authentication servers>>+]  [B<-no>]  [-h] 
     
B<kas rm -na> <I<name of user>>  [-a <I<admin principal to use for authentication>>]  
[B<-p> <I<admin password>>]  [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]  
       [B<-s> <I<explicit list of authentication servers>>+]  [B<-no>]  [-h]  

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The kas delete command removes from the Authentication Database
the user entry named by the B<-name> argument. The indicated
user becomes unable to log in, or the indicated server becomes unreachable
(because the Authentication Server's Ticket Granting Service module no
longer has a key with which to seal tickets for the server).

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -name

Names the Authentication Database entry to delete.

=item -admin_username

Specifies the user identity under which to authenticate with the
Authentication Server for execution of the command. For more details,
see the introductory B<kas> reference page.

=item -password_for_admin

Specifies the password of the command's issuer. If it is
omitted (as recommended), the B<kas> command interpreter prompts for
it and does not echo it visibly. For more details, see the introductory
B<kas> reference page.

=item -cell

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
the introductory B<kas> reference page.

=item -servers

Names each machine running an Authentication Server with which to
establish a connection. For more details, see the introductory
B<kas> reference page.

=item -noauth

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the
issuer. For more details, see the introductory B<kas> reference
page.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows the administrative user admin
entering interactive mode to delete three accounts.

   % kas
   Password for admin:
   ka> delete smith
   ka> delete pat
   ka> delete terry

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the C<ADMIN> flag set on his or her
Authentication Database entry.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<kas(1)>,
L<kas_create(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
