=head1 NAME

kas create - Creates an entry in the Authentication Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<kas create -name> <I<name of user>>  [-initial_password <I<initial password>>] 
[B<-admin_username> <I<admin principal to use for authentication>>] 
           [B<-password_for_admin> <I<admin password>>]  [-cell <I<cell name>>] 
           [-servers <I<explicit list of authentication servers>>+]  
           [B<-noauth>]  [-help]

B<kas c -na> <I<name of user>>  [-i <I<initial password>>] 
[B<-a> <I<admin principal to use for authentication>>]  
      [B<-p> <I<admin password>>]  [-c <I<cell name>>]  
      [B<-s> <I<explicit list of authentication servers>>+]  [B<-no>]  [-h] 

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The kas create command creates an entry in the Authentication
Database for the user named by the B<-name> argument.

To avoid having the account's initial password echo visibly at the
shell prompt, omit the B<-initial_password> argument; the command
interpreter prompts for the password and does not echo it visibly.
Whether or not B<-initial_password> is omitted, the Authentication
Server converts the password into a form suitable for use as an encryption
key, and records it in the entry's key field.

To alter settings in an Authentication Database entry, use the kas
setfields command. To examine an entry, use the B<kas
examine> command. To list every entry in the database, use the
B<kas list> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -name

Names the new Authentication Database entry. Because it is the name
under which the user logs in, it must obey the restrictions that many
operating systems impose on user names (usually, to contain no more than eight
lowercase letters).

=item -initial_password

Sets the user's password; provide a character string that can
include uppercase and lowercase letters, numerals and punctuation. The
Authentication Server scrambles the string into an octal string suitable for
use as an encryption key before placing it in the entry's key
field. If this argument is omitted, the command interpreter prompts for
the string and does not echo it visibly.

=item -admin_username

Specifies the user identity under which to authenticate with the
Authentication Server for execution of the command. For more details,
see the introductory B<kas> reference page.

=item -password_for_admin

Specifies the password of the command's issuer. If it is
omitted (as recommended), the B<kas> command interpreter prompts for
it and does not echo it visibly. For more details, see the introductory
B<kas> reference page.

=item -cell

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
the introductory B<kas> reference page.

=item -servers

Names each machine running an Authentication Server with which to
establish a connection. For more details, see the introductory
B<kas> reference page.

=item -noauth

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the
issuer. For more details, see the introductory B<kas> reference
page.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows the prompts that appear when an administrator
logged in as B<admin> creates an Authentication Database entry for the
user B<smith>, and does not include either the
B<-initial_password> or B<-password_for_admin>
arguments.

   % kas create smith
   Password for admin: 
   initial_password:
   Verifying, please re-enter initial_password:

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the C<ADMIN> flag set on his or her
Authentication Database entry.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<kas(1)>,
L<kas_examine(1)>,
L<kas_list(1)>,
L<kas_setfields(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
