=head1 NAME

kas_stringtokey - Converts a character string into an octal key

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<kas stringtokey> S<<< B<-string> <I<password string>> >>>
    S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-help>]

B<kas str> S<<< B<-s> <I<password string>> >>> S<<< [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] >>> [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<kas stringtokey> command converts the character string specified
with the B<-string> argument into an octal string suitable for use as an
encryption key.

The B<kas> command interpreter generates the octal key by using an
encryption algorithm on the combination of the specified string and the
name of the local cell (as recorded in the local F</usr/vice/etc/ThisCell>
file). Use the B<-cell> argument to convert a string into a key
appropriate for a cell other than the local one.

=head1 CAUTIONS

This command writes the key to the standard output stream, on which it can
possibly be intercepted by third parties. It is not very secure to use the
key in an actual Authentication Database entry.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-string> <I<password string>>

Specifies the character string to convert into an octal key.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Specifies the complete Internet domain name of the cell to combine with
the password string while generating the key. If this argument is omitted,
the B<kas> command interpreter determines the name of the local cell by
consulting:

=over 4

=item *

First, the value of the environment variable AFSCELL.

=item *

Second, the cellname in the F</usr/vice/etc/ThisCell> file on the local
machine.

=back

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output is of the following form:

   Converting I<password string> in realm 'I<cell_name>' yields key='I<key>'.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows the octal key equivalent of the string
C<new_pswd> in the ABC Corporation cell.

   % kas stringtokey new_pswd
   Converting new_pswd in realm 'ABC.COM' yields
       key='\346\307\364\320\263\233\342\354'.

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None, and no password is required.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<ThisCell(5)>,
L<kas(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
