=head1 NAME

kas setpassword - Changes the key field in an Authentication Database entry

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<kas setpassword> S<<< B<-name> <I<name of user>> >>>
    S<<< [B<-new_password> <I<new password>>] >>> S<<< [B<-kvno> <I<key version number>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-admin_username> <I<admin principal to use for authentication>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-password_for_admin> <I<admin password>>] >>> S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-servers> <I<explicit list of authentication servers>>+] >>>
    [B<-noauth>] [B<-help>]

B<kas setpasswd> S<<< B<-na> <I<name of user>> >>> S<<< [B<-ne> <I<new password>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-k> <I<key version number>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-a> <I<admin principal to use for authentication>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-p> <I<admin password>>] >>> S<<< [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-s> <I<explicit list of authentication servers>>+] >>> [B<-no>] [B<-h>]

B<kas setp> S<<< B<-na> <I<name of user>> >>> S<<< [B<-ne> <I<new password>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-k> <I<key version number>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-a> <I<admin principal to use for authentication>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-p> <I<admin password>>] >>> S<<< [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-s> <I<explicit list of authentication servers>>+] >>> [B<-no>] [B<-h>]

B<kas sp> S<<< B<-na> <I<name of user>> >>> S<<< [B<-ne> <I<new password>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-k> <I<key version number>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-a> <I<admin principal to use for authentication>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-p> <I<admin password>>] >>> S<<< [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-s> <I<explicit list of authentication servers>>+] >>> [B<-no>] [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<kas setpassword> command accepts a character string of unlimited
length, scrambles it into a form suitable for use as an encryption key,
places it in the key field of the Authentication Database entry named by
the B<-name> argument, and assigns it the key version number specified by
the B<-kvno> argument.

To avoid making the password string visible at the shell prompt, omit the
B<-new_password> argument. Prompts then appear at the shell which do not
echo the password visibly.

When changing the B<afs> server key, also issue B<bos addkey> command to
add the key (with the same key version number) to the
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. See the I<IBM AFS Administration Guide> for
instructions.

The command interpreter checks the password string subject to the
following conditions:

=over 4

=item *

If there is a program called kpwvalid in the same directory as the B<kas>
binary, the command interpreter invokes it to process the password. For
details, see L<kpwvalid(8)>.

=item *

If the B<-reuse> argument to the B<kas setfields> command has been used to
prohibit reuse of previous passwords, the command interpreter verifies
that the password is not too similar too any of the user's previous 20
passwords. It generates the following error message at the shell:

   Password was not changed because it seems like a reused password

To prevent a user from subverting this restriction by changing the
password twenty times in quick succession (manually or by running a
script), use the B<-minhours> argument on the B<kaserver> initialization
command. The following error message appears if a user attempts to change
a password before the minimum time has passed:

   Password was not changed because you changed it too
   recently; see your systems administrator

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-name> <I<name of user>>

Names the entry in which to record the new key.

=item B<-new_password> <I<new password>>

Specifies the character string the user types when authenticating to
AFS. Omit this argument and type the string at the resulting prompts so
that the password does not echo visibly. Note that some non-AFS programs
cannot handle passwords longer than eight characters.

=item B<-kvno> <I<key version number>>

Specifies the key version number associated with the new key.  Provide an
integer in the range from C<0> through C<255>. If omitted, the default is
C<0> (zero), which is probably not desirable for server keys.

=item B<-admin_username> <I<admin principal>>

Specifies the user identity under which to authenticate with the
Authentication Server for execution of the command. For more details, see
L<kas(8)>.

=item B<-password_for_admin> <I<admin password>>

Specifies the password of the command's issuer. If it is omitted (as
recommended), the B<kas> command interpreter prompts for it and does not
echo it visibly. For more details, see L<kas(8)>.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
L<kas(8)>.

=item B<-servers> <I<authentication servers>>+

Names each machine running an Authentication Server with which to
establish a connection. For more details, see L<kas(8)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity C<anonymous> to the issuer. For more
details, see L<kas(8)>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

In the following example, an administrator using the C<admin> account
changes the password for C<pat> (presumably because C<pat> forgot the
former password or got locked out of his account in some other way).

   % kas setpassword pat
   Password for admin:
   new_password:
   Verifying, please re-enter new_password:

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

Individual users can change their own passwords. To change another user's
password or the password (server encryption key) for server entries such
as C<afs>, the issuer must have the C<ADMIN> flag set in his or her
Authentication Database entry.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<bos_addkey(8)>,
L<kas(8)>,
L<kaserver(8)>,
L<kpwvalid(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
