=head1 NAME

kas statistics - Displays statistics from an Authentication Server process

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<kas statistics>
    S<<< [B<-admin_username> <I<admin principal to use for authentication>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-password_for_admin> <I<admin password>>] >>> S<<< [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-servers> <I<explicit list of authentication servers>>+] >>>
    [B<-noauth>] [B<-help>]

B<kas sta> S<<< [B<-a> <I<admin principal to use for authentication>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-p> <I<admin password>>] >>>  S<<< [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-s> <I<explicit list of authentication servers>>+] >>> [B<-n>] [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<kas statistics> command displays statistics from the Authentication
Server running on one of the cell's database server machines. Use the
B<-servers> argument to name a specific machine, or the command
interpreter chooses one at random from all the database server machines
with which it has established connections.

=head1 CAUTIONS

The B<-servers> argument is not available in interactive mode, making it
impossible to specify a certain machine.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-admin_username> <I<admin principal>>

Specifies the user identity under which to authenticate with the
Authentication Server for execution of the command. For more details, see
L<kas(8)>.

=item B<-password_for_admin> <I<admin password>>

Specifies the password of the command's issuer. If it is omitted (as
recommended), the B<kas> command interpreter prompts for it and does not
echo it visibly. For more details, see L<kas(8)>.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
L<kas(8)>.

=item B<-servers> <I<authentication servers>>+

Names each machine running an Authentication Server with which to
establish a connection. For more details, see L<kas(8)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity C<anonymous> to the issuer. For more
details, see L<kas(8)>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The information in the output includes:

=over 4

=item *

The number of allocation and freeing operations the Authentication Server
has performed, and how many password change requests it has processed.

=item *

An indication of its hash table use.

=item *

The server machine's IP address in hexadecimal and the date when the
current instance of the Authentication Server started.

=item *

The number of requests and aborted requests for various services:
authentication, ticket granting, password setting, entry listing, and so
on.

=item *

The amount of CPU time that the Authentication Server has used to process
requests since it started. The amount is not accurate on all system types,
however.

=item *

The number of entries in the Authentication Database that are marked with
the C<ADMIN> flag.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

In the following example, an administrator using the admin account gathers
statistics from the Authentication Server running on the machine
C<fs1.abc.com>.

   % kas statistics -servers fs1.abc.com
   56 allocs, 46 frees, 0 password changes
   Hash table utilization = 0.100000%
   From host bfff21a7 started at Tue Mar 23 12:42:02 1999:
     of 88 requests for Authenticate, 18 were aborted.
     of 14 requests for GetTicket, 0 were aborted.
     of 4 requests for CreateUser, 1 were aborted.
     of 12 requests for SetFields, 4 were aborted.
     of 3 requests for DeleteUser, 0 were aborted.
     of 23 requests for GetEntry, 4 were aborted.
     of 18 requests for ListEntry, 0 were aborted.
     of 2 requests for GetStats, 1 were aborted.
     of 2 requests for GetRandomKey, 0 were aborted.
   Used 6.015 seconds of CPU time.
   3 admin accounts

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the C<ADMIN> flag set on his or her Authentication
Database entry.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<kas(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
