=head1 NAME

kas examine - Displays information from an Authentication Database entry

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<kas examine -name> <I<name of user>> [-showkey] 
[B<-admin_username> <I<admin principal to use for authentication>>]  
            [B<-password_for_admin> <I<admin password>>]  [-cell <I<cell name>>] 
            [-servers <I<explicit list of authentication servers>>+]  
            [B<-noauth>]  [-help] 

B<kas e -na> <I<name of user>>  [-sh] 
[B<-a> <I<admin principal to use for authentication>>] 
      [B<-p> <I<admin password>>]  [-c <I<cell name>>] 
      [B<-se> <I<explicit list of authentication servers>>+]  [B<-no>]  [-h]  

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The kas examine command formats and displays information from
the Authentication Database entry of the user named by the B<-name>
argument.

To alter the settings displayed with this command, issue the kas
setfields command.

=head1 CAVEATS

Displaying actual keys on the standard output stream by including the
B<-showkey> flag constitutes a security exposure. For most
purposes, it is sufficient to display a checksum.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -name

Names the Authentication Database entry from which to display
information.

=item -showkey
>

Displays the octal digits that constitute the key. The issuer must
have the C<ADMIN> flag on his or her Authentication Database
entry.

=item -admin_username

Specifies the user identity under which to authenticate with the
Authentication Server for execution of the command. For more details,
see the introductory B<kas> reference page.

=item -password_for_admin

Specifies the password of the command's issuer. If it is
omitted (as recommended), the B<kas> command interpreter prompts for
it and does not echo it visibly. For more details, see the introductory
B<kas> reference page.

=item -cell

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
the introductory B<kas> reference page.

=item -servers

Names each machine running an Authentication Server with which to
establish a connection. For more details, see the introductory
B<kas> reference page.

=item -noauth

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the
issuer. For more details, see the introductory B<kas> reference
page.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output includes:

=over 4

=item *

The entry name, following the string C<User data for>.


=item *

One or more status flags in parentheses; they appear only if an
administrator has used the B<kas setfields> command to change them
from their default values. A plus sign (C<+>) separates the
flags if there is more than one. The nondefault values that can appear,
and their meanings, are as follows: 


=over 4

=item C<ADMIN
>

Enables the user to issue privileged kas commands (default is
C<NOADMIN>)

=item C<NOTGS
>

Prevents the user from obtaining tickets from the Authentication
Server's Ticket Granting Service (default is C<TGS>)

=item C<NOSEAL
>

Prevents the Ticket Granting Service from using the entry's key field
as an encryption key (default is C<SEAL>)

=item C<NOCPW
>

Prevents the user from changing his or her password (default is
C<CPW>)

=back

=item *

The key version number, in parentheses, following the word C<key>,
then one of the following. 


=over 4

=item *

A checksum equivalent of the key, following the string C<cksum
is>, if the B<-showkey> flag is not included. The checksum
is a decimal number derived by encrypting a constant with the key. In
the case of the B<afs>> entry, this number must match the
checksum with the corresponding key version number in the output of the
B<bos listkeys> command; if not, follow the instructions in the
I<IBM AFS Administration Guide> for creating a new server encryption
key.


=item *

The actual key, following a colon, if the -showkey flag is
included. The key consists of eight octal numbers, each represented as
a backslash followed by three decimal digits.


=back

=item *

The date the user last changed his or her own password, following the
string C<last cpw> (which stands for "last change of
password").


=item *

The string C<password will never expire> indicates that the
associated password never expires; the string C<password will
expire> is followed by the password's expiration date. After
the indicated date, the user cannot authenticate, but has 30 days after it in
which to use the B<kpasswd> or B<kas setpassword> command to
set a new password. After 30 days, only an administrator (one whose
account is marked with the C<ADMIN> flag) can change the password by
using the B<kas setpassword> command. To set the password
expiration date, use the B<kas setfields> command's
B<-pwexpires> argument.


=item *

The number of times the user can fail to provide the correct password
before the account locks, followed by the string C<consecutive unsuccessful
authentications are permitted>, or the string C<An unlimited number of
unsuccessful authentications is permitted> to indicate that there is no
limit. To set the limit, use the B<kas setfields>
command's B<-attempts> argument. To unlock a locked
account, use the B<kas unlock> command. The B<kas
setfields> reference page discusses how the implementation of the lockout
feature interacts with this setting.


=item *

The number of minutes for which the Authentication Server refuses the
user's login attempts after the limit on consecutive unsuccessful
authentication attempts is exceeded, following the string C<The lock time
for this user is>. Use the B<kas> command's
B<-locktime> argument to set the lockout time. This line
appears only if a limit on the number of unsuccessful authentication attempts
has been set with the the B<kas setfields> command's
B<-attempts> argument.


=item *

An indication of whether the Authentication Server is currently refusing
the user's login attempts. The string C<User is not
locked> indicates that authentication can succeed, whereas the string
C<User is locked until> I<time> indicates that the user cannot
authenticate until the indicated time. Use the B<kas unlock>
command to enable a user to attempt authentication. This line appears
only if a limit on the number of unsuccessful authentication attempts has been
set with the B<kas setfields> command's B<-attempts>
argument.


=item *

The date on which the Authentication Server entry expires, or the string
C<entry never expires> to indicate that the entry does not
expire. A user becomes unable to authenticate when his or her entry
expires. Use the B<kas setfields> command's
B<-expiration> argument to set the expiration date.


=item *

The maximum possible lifetime of the tokens that the Authentication Server
grants the user. This value interacts with several others to determine
the actual lifetime of the token, as described on the B<klog>
reference page. Use the B<kas setfields> command's
B<-lifetime> argument to set this value.


=item *

The date on which the entry was last modified, following the string
C<last mod on> and the user name of the administrator who modified
it. The date on which a user changed his or her own password is
recorded on the second line of output as C<last cpw> instead.


=item *

An indication of whether the user can reuse one of his or her last twenty
passwords when issuing the B<kpasswd>, B<kas setpassword>, or
B<kas setkey> commands. Use the B<kas setfields>
command's B<-reuse> argument to set this restriction.


=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example command shows the user smith displaying
her own Authentication Database entry. Note the C<ADMIN> flag,
which shows that B<smith> is privileged.

   % kas examine smith
   Password for smith:
   User data for smith (ADMIN)
    key (0) cksum is 3414844392,  last cpw: Thu Mar 25 16:05:44 1999
    password will expire:  Fri Apr 30 20:44:36 1999
    5 consecutive unsuccessful authentications are permitted.
    The lock time for this user is 25.5 minutes.
    User is not locked.
    entry never expires. Max ticket lifetime 100.00 hours.
    last mod on Tue Jan 5 08:22:29 1999 by admin
    permit password reuse

In the following example, the user pat examines his
Authentication Database entry to determine when the account lockout currently
in effect will end.

   % kas examine pat
   Password for pat:
   User data for pat
    key (0) cksum is 73829292912,  last cpw: Wed Apr 7 11:23:01 1999
    password will expire:  Fri  Jun 11 11:23:01 1999
    5 consecutive unsuccessful authentications are permitted.
    The lock time for this user is 25.5 minutes.
    User is locked until Tue Sep 21 12:25:07 1999
    entry expires on never. Max ticket lifetime 100.00 hours.
    last mod on Thu Feb 4 08:22:29 1999 by admin
    permit password reuse

In the following example, an administrator logged in as admin
uses the B<-showkey> flag to display the octal digits that constitute
the key in the B<afs> entry.

   % kas examine -name afs -showkey
   Password for admin: I<admin_password>
   User data for afs
    key (12): \357\253\304\352\234\236\253\352, last cpw: no date 
    entry never expires. Max ticket lifetime 100.00 hours.
    last mod on Thu Mar 25 14:53:29 1999 by admin
    permit password reuse

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

A user can examine his or her own entry. To examine others'
entries or to include the B<-showkey> flag, the issuer must have the
C<ADMIN> flag set in his or her Authentication Database entry.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<bos_addkey(1)>,
L<bos_listkeys(1)>,
L<bos_setauth(1)>,
L<kas(1)>,
L<kas_setfields(1)>,
L<kas_setpassword(1)>,
L<kas_unlock(1)>,
L<klog(1)>,
L<kpasswd(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
