=head1 NAME

kas unlock - Unlocks a locked user account

=head1 SYNOPSIS

kas unlock -name <I<authentication ID>>  
[B<-admin_username> <I<admin principal to use for authentication>>] 
           [B<-password_for_admin> <I<admin password>>]  [-cell <I<cell name>>] 
           [-servers <I<explicit list of authentication servers>>+]
           [B<-noauth>]  [-help]

kas u -na <I<authentication ID>>  
[B<-a> <I<admin principal to use for authentication>>] 
      [B<-p> <I<admin password>>]  [-c <I<cell name>>] 
      [B<-s> <I<explicit list of authentication servers>>+]  [B<-no>]  [-h]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The kas unlock command unlocks the Authentication Database entry
named by the B<-name> argument. An entry becomes locked when
the user exceeds the limit on failed authentication attempts, generally by
providing the wrong password to either an AFS-modified login utility or the
B<klog> command. Use the B<kas setfields> command to
set the limit and the lockout time, and the B<kas examine> command to
examine the settings.

To unlock all locked user accounts at once, shutdown the
B<kaserver> process on every database server machine, and remove the
B</usr/afs/local/kaauxdb> file from each one. The
B<kaserver> process recreates the file as it restarts.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -name

Names the Authentication Database entry to unlock.

=item -admin_username

Specifies the user identity under which to authenticate with the
Authentication Server for execution of the command. For more details,
see the introductory B<kas> reference page.

=item -password_for_admin

Specifies the password of the command's issuer. If it is
omitted (as recommended), the B<kas> command interpreter prompts for
it and does not echo it visibly. For more details, see the introductory
B<kas> reference page.

=item -cell

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
the introductory B<kas> reference page.

=item -servers

Names each machine running an Authentication Server with which to
establish a connection. For more details, see the introductory
B<kas> reference page.

=item -noauth

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the
issuer. For more details, see the introductory B<kas> reference
page.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

In the following example, an administrator using the admin
account unlocks the entry for B<jones>:

   % kas unlock -name jones -admin_username admin
   Administrator's (admin) Password:

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the C<ADMIN> flag set on his or her
Authentication Database entry.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<kas(1)>,
L<kas_examine(1)>,
L<kas_setfields(1)>,
L<klog(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
