=head1 NAME

kas list - Displays all entries in the Authentication Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<kas list> [B<-long>]  [B<-showadmin>]  [-showkey]
[B<-admin_username> <I<admin principal to use for authentication>>] 
         [B<-password_for_admin> <I<admin password>>]  [-cell <I<cell name>>] 
         [-servers <I<explicit list of authentication servers>>+]
         [B<-noauth>]  [-help]

B<kas ls> [B<-l>]  [B<-showa>]   [-showk]
[B<-a> <I<admin principal to use for authentication>>] 
       [B<-p> <I<admin password>>]  [-c <I<cell name>>] 
       [B<-se> <I<explicit list of authentication servers>>+]  [B<-n>]  [-h] 

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The kas list command either displays all entries from the
Authentication Database by name, or displays the full database entry for a
defined set of entries, as determined by the flag provided:

=over 4

=item *

To display every entry in the Authentication Database in full, include the
B<-long> flag.


=item *

To display only those entries in full that have the C<ADMIN> flag
set, include the B<-showadmin> flag.


=item *

To list only the name of each Authentication Database entry, omit both the
B<-long> and B<-showadmin> flags.


=back

By default, full entries include a checksum for the encryption key, rather
than the actual octal digits that constitute the key. To display the
octal digits, include the B<-showkey> flag with the B<-long>
or B<-showadmin> flag.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item -long

Displays every Authentication Database entry in full. Provide this
flag or the B<-showadmin> flag, or omit both to display just the name
of every database entry.

=item -showadmin

Displays in full only the Authentication Database entries that have the
C<ADMIN> flag set. Provide this flag or the B<-long>
flag, or omit both to display just the name of every database entry.

=item -showkey

Displays the octal digits that constitute the key in each full
entry. Provide either the B<-long> or B<-showadmin>
flag along with this one.

=item -admin_username

Specifies the user identity under which to authenticate with the
Authentication Server for execution of the command. For more details,
see the introductory B<kas> reference page.

=item -password_for_admin

Specifies the password of the command's issuer. If it is
omitted (as recommended), the B<kas> command interpreter prompts for
it and does not echo it visibly. For more details, see the introductory
B<kas> reference page.

=item -cell

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
the introductory B<kas> reference page.

=item -servers

Names each machine running an Authentication Server with which to
establish a connection. For more details, see the introductory
B<kas> reference page.

=item -noauth

Assigns the unprivileged identity anonymous to the
issuer. For more details, see the introductory B<kas> reference
page.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

If neither the B<-long> or -showadmin flag is provided,
the output lists the name of each entry in the Authentication Database on its
own line.

If the -long flag is included, the output includes every
Authentication Database entry in full. If the B<-showadmin>
flag is included, the output includes in full only the Authentication Database
entries that have the C<ADMIN> flag set. If the
B<-showkey> is provided along with either one, the output includes the
octal digits that constitute the encryption key in each entry.

A full Authentication Database entry includes the same information
displayed by the B<kas examine> command; for details, see that
command's reference page.

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the C<ADMIN> flag set on his or her
Authentication Database entry.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<kas(1)>,
L<kas_examine(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
