=head1 NAME

kdb - Displays log or privileged actions performed by the Authentication Server

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<kdb> [B<-dbmfile> <I<dbmfile to use (default /usr/afs/logs/AuthLog)>>]
    [B<-key> <I<extract entries that match specified key>>] [B<-help>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<kdb> command displays the contents of the F<AuthLog.dir> and
F<AuthLog.pag> files associated with the F<AuthLog> file that resides on
the local disk, by default in the F</usr/afs/logs> directory. The files
must exist in that directory, which normally implies that the
Authentication Server is running on the machine. The files contain
information on privileged actions performed by the Authentication Server.

=head1 CAUTIONS

It is possible that on some operating systems that AFS otherwise supports,
the Authentication Server cannot create the F</usr/afs/logs/AuthLog.dir>
and F</usr/afs/logs/AuthLog.pag> files, making this command
inoperative. See the I<IBM AFS Release Notes> for details.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-dbmfile> <I<dbmfile to use>>

Specifies the pathname of the file to display. Provide either a complete
pathname, a pathname relative to the F</usr/afs/logs> directory, or a
filename only, in which case the file must reside in the F</usr/afs/logs>
directory. Omit this argument to display information from the
F<AuthLog.dir> and F<AuthLog.pag> files in the F</usr/afs/logs> directory.

=item B<-key> <I<extract entries that match specified key>>

Specifies each entry to be displayed from the indicated file.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The first line of output indicates the location of the files from which
the subsequent information is derived:

   Printing all entries found in <file_location>

Each entry then includes the following two fields, separated by a colon:

=over 4

=item user/server

Identifies the user requesting the corresponding service and the server
that performed that service. In cases where no user is directly involved,
only the server appears; in cases where no server is directly involved,
only the user appears.

=item service

Identifies one of the following actions or services performed by the user
or server process.

=over 4

=item *

C<auth>: Obtained a ticket-granting ticket.

=item *

C<chp>: Changed a user password.

=item *

C<cruser>: Created a user entry in the Authentication Database.

=item *

C<delu>: Deleted a user entry from the Authentication Database.

=item *

C<gtck>: Obtained a ticket other than a ticket-granting ticket.

=item *

C<setf>: Set fields in an Authentication Database entry.

=item *

C<unlok>: Unlocked an Authentication Database entry.

=back

=back

The final line of output sums the number of entries.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows the output of the B<kdb> command in the ABC
Corporation cell (C<abc.com>):

   % kdb
   Printing all entries found in /usr/afs/logs/AuthLog
   admin,krbtgt.ABC.COM:auth
   admin,afs:gtck
   admin:cruser
   admin:delu
   4 entries were found

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be logged in as the local superuser C<root>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<AuthLog.dir(5)>,
L<bos_getlog(8)>,
L<kaserver(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
