=head1 NAME

prdb_check - Checks the integrity of the Protection Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<prdb_check> S<<< B<-database> <I<ptdb file>> >>> [B<-uheader>] [B<-pheader>]
    [B<-entries>] [B<-verbose>] [B<-help>]

B<prdb_check> S<<< B<-d> <I<ptdb file>> >>> [B<-u>] [B<-p>] [B<-e>] [B<-v>] [B<-h>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<prdb_check> command checks the integrity of the Protection Database,
reporting any errors or corruption it finds. If there are problems, do not
issue any B<pts> commands until the database is repaired.

=head1 CAUTIONS

The results can be unpredictable if the Protection Server makes changes to
the Protection Database while this command is running. Use the B<bos
shutdown> command to shutdown the local B<ptserver> process before running
this command, or before creating a second copy of the F<prdb.DB0> file
(with a different name) on which to run the command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-database> <I<ptdb file>>

Names the Protection Database (copy of the F<prdb.DB0> file) to check. If
the current working directory is not the location of the file, provide a
pathname, either full or relative to the current working directory.

=item B<-uheader>

Displays information which Ubik maintains in the database's header.

=item B<-pheader>

Displays information which the Protection Server maintains in the
database's header.

=item B<-entries>

Outputs every entry in the database. Some of the information is similar to
that returned by the B<pts examine> command.

=item B<-verbose>

Reports additional information about the database, including the number of
entries in the database and a trace of the internal database structures
the command is verifying.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

If there are errors in the database, the output always reports them on the
standard error stream. If any options other than B<-database> or B<-help>
are provided, the output written to the standard output stream includes
additional information as described for each option in L<OPTIONS>.  The
output is intended for debugging purposes and is meaningful to someone
familiar with the internal structure of the Protection Database.

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be logged in as the local superuser C<root>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<prdb.DB0(5)>,
L<bos_shutdown(8)>,
L<pts_examine(1)>,
L<ptserver(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
