=head1 NAME

ptserver - Initializes the Protection Server

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

ptserver S<<< [B<-database> | B<-db> <I<db path>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-p> <I<number of threads>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-d> <I<debug level>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-groupdepth> | B<-depth> <I<# of nested groups>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-default_access> <I<user access mask>> <I<group access mask>>] >>>
    [B<-restricted>] [B<-restrict_anonymous>] [B<-enable_peer_stats>]
    [B<-enable_process_stats>] [B<-allow-dotted-principals>]
    [B<-rxbind>] S<<< [B<-auditlog> [<I<interface>>:]<I<path>>[:<I<options>>]] >>>
    S<<< [B<-audit-interface> <I<default interface>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-syslog>[=<I<FACILITY>>]] >>>
    S<<< [B<-logfile> <I<log file>>] >>>
    [B<-transarc-logs>]
    S<<< [B<-config> <I<configuration path>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-rxmaxmtu> <I<bytes>>] >>>
    S<< [B<-s2scrypt> (rxgk-crypt | never)] >>
    [B<-help>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<ptserver> command initializes the Protection Server, which must run
on every database server machine. In the conventional configuration, its
binary file is located in the F</usr/afs/bin> directory on a file server
machine.

The ptserver command is not normally issued at the command shell prompt,
but rather placed into a database server machine's
F</usr/afs/local/BosConfig> file with the B<bos create> command. If it is
ever issued at the command shell prompt, the issuer must be logged onto a
file server machine as the local superuser C<root>.

The Protection Server performs the following tasks:

=over 4

=item *

Maintains the Protection Database, which contains entries for every user
and group in the cell. Use the B<pts> commands to administer the database.

=item *

Allocates AFS IDs for new user, machine and group entries and maps each ID
to the corresponding name.

=item *

Generates a current protection subgroup (CPS) at the File Server's
request. The CPS lists all groups to which a user or machine belongs.

=back

When using Kerberos 5, cross-realm authentication is possible. If the
special pts group system:authuser@FOREIGN.REALM exists and its group quota
is greater than zero, B<aklog> will automatically create an entry for the
foreign user in the local PTS database and add the foreign user to the
system:authuser@FOREIGN.REALM PTS group.  Each time a foreign user is
created in the local PTS database, the group quota for the
system:authuser@FOREIGN.REALM PTS group is decremented by one.

This command does not use the syntax conventions of the AFS command
suites. Provide the command name and all option names in full.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-d> <I<debug level>>

Sets the detail level for the debugging trace written to the
F</usr/afs/logs/PtLog> file. Provide one of the following values, each
of which produces an increasingly detailed trace: C<0>, C<1>, C<5>, C<25>,
and C<125>. 

=item B<-database> | B<-db> <I<db path>>

Specifies the pathname of an alternate directory in which the Protection
Database files reside. Provide the complete pathname, ending in the base
filename to which the C<.DB0> and C<.DBSYS1> extensions are appended. For
example, the appropriate value for the default database files is
F</usr/afs/db/prdb>.

=item B<-p> <I<number of threads>>

Sets the number of server lightweight processes (LWPs or pthreads) to run.
Provide a positive integer from the range C<3> to C<64>. The default
value is C<3>.

=item B<-groupdepth> | B<-depth> <I<# of nested groups>>

Specifies the group depth for nested groups when B<ptserver> is compiled
with the SUPERGROUPS option enabled.  The default depth for nested groups
is 5.

=item B<-default_access> <I<user access>> <I<group access>>

Specifies the default user and group privacy flags to apply to each
entry. Provide a string of five characters, one for each of the
permissions. See L<pts_examine(1)> or L<pts_setfields(1)> for more
information on the flags.

=item B<-restricted>

Run the PT Server in restricted mode. While in restricted mode, only
members of the system:administrators PTS group may make any PTS changes.

=item B<-restrict_anonymous>

Run the PT Server in restricted anonymous access mode. While in this mode,
only authenticated users will be able to access the PTS database.

=item B<-enable_peer_stats>

Activates the collection of Rx statistics and allocates memory for their
storage. For each connection with a specific UDP port on another machine,
a separate record is kept for each type of RPC (FetchFile, GetStatus, and
so on) sent or received. To display or otherwise access the records, use
the Rx Monitoring API.

=item B<-enable_process_stats>

Activates the collection of Rx statistics and allocates memory for their
storage. A separate record is kept for each type of RPC (FetchFile,
GetStatus, and so on) sent or received, aggregated over all connections to
other machines. To display or otherwise access the records, use the Rx
Monitoring API.

=item B<-allow-dotted-principals>

By default, the RXKAD security layer will disallow access by Kerberos
principals with a dot in the first component of their name. This is to
avoid the confusion where principals user/admin and user.admin are both
mapped to the user.admin PTS entry. Sites whose Kerberos realms don't have
these collisions between principal names may disable this check by
starting the server with this option.

=item B<-rxbind>

Bind the Rx socket to the primary interface only.  (If not specified, the
Rx socket will listen on all interfaces.)

=item B<-syslog>[=<I<syslog facility>>]

Specifies that logging output should go to syslog instead of the normal
log file.  B<-syslog>=I<FACILITY> can be used to specify to which facility
the log message should be sent.  Logging message sent to syslog are tagged
with the string "ptserver".

=item B<-logfile> <I<log file>>

Sets the file to use for server logging. If logfile is not specified, and
no other logging options are supplied, this will be F</usr/afs/logs/PtLog>.
Note that this option is intended for debugging and testing purposes.
Changing the location of the log file from the command line may result
in undesirable interactions with tools such as B<bos>.

=item B<-transarc-logs>

Use Transarc style logging features. Rename the log file
F</usr/afs/logs/PtLog> to F</usr/afs/logs/PtLog.old> when the PT Server is
restarted.  This option is provided for compatibility with older versions.

=item B<-config> <I<configuration directory>>

Set the location of the configuration directory used to configure this
service. In a typical configuration this will be F</usr/afs/etc> - this
option allows the use of alternative configuration locations for testing
purposes.

=item B<-auditlog> [<I<interface>>:]<I<path>>:<I<options>>]

Turns on audit logging, and sets the path for the audit log.  The audit
log records information about RPC calls, including the name of the RPC
call, the host that submitted the call, the authenticated entity (user)
that issued the call, the parameters for the call, and if the call
succeeded or failed.  See L<fileserver(8)> for an explanation of the audit
facility.

=item B<-audit-interface> <I<default interface>>

Sets the default audit interface used by the B<-auditlog> option.  The
initial default is the C<file> interface. See L<fileserver(8)> for
an explanation of each interface.

=item B<-rxmaxmtu> <I<bytes>>

Sets the maximum transmission unit for the RX protocol.

=item B<-s2scrypt> (rxgk-crypt | never)

Specify C<rxgk-crypt> to use rxgk connections with per-packet encryption for
server-to-server (s2s) communication. Specify C<never> to use rxkad connections
instead, without per-packet encryption ("rxkad_clear").

The default is currently C<never>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following B<bos create> command creates a C<ptserver> process on the
machine C<fs3.example.com>. The command appears here on multiple lines only
for legibility.

   % bos create -server fs3.example.com -instance ptserver \
                -type simple -cmd /usr/afs/bin/ptserver

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be logged in as the superuser C<root> on a file server
machine to issue the command at a command shell prompt. It is conventional
instead to create and start the process by issuing the B<bos create>
command.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<BosConfig(5)>,
L<PtLog(5)>,
L<prdb.DB0(5)>,
L<bos_create(8)>,
L<bos_getlog(8)>,
L<pts(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
