
=head1 NAME

read_tape - Reads volume dumps from a backup tape to a file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<read_tape> S<<< B<-tape> <I<tape device>> >>>
   S<<< B<-restore> <I<# of volumes to restore>> >>>
   S<<< B<-skip> <I<# of volumes to skip>> >>>
   S<<< B<-file> <I<filename>> >>> [B<-scan>] [B<-noask>] [B<-label>]
   [B<-vheaders>] [B<-verbose>] [B<-help>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<read_tape> reads an OpenAFS backup tape and prompts for each dump file to
save.  This command does not require any OpenAFS infrastructure.  This
command does not need an OpenAFS client or server to be available, which is
not the case with the L<backup(8)> command.

The dump files will be named for the Read/Write name of the volume restored.
After saving each dump file, B<vos restore> or B<restorevol> can be used to
restore the volume into AFS and non-AFS space respectively.

B<read_tape> reads the tape while skipping the specified number of volumes.
After that, it restores the specified number of volumes.  B<read_tape>
doesn't rewind the tape so that it may be used multiple times in succession.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-tape> <I<tape device>>

Specifies the tape device from which to restore.

=item B<-restore> <I<# of volumes to restore>>

Specifies the number of volumes to restore from tape.

=item B<-skip> <I<# of volumes to skip>>

Specifies the number of volumes to skip before starting the restore.

=item B<-file> <I<filename>>

Specifies an alternate name for the restored volume dump file rather than
the default of the volume name.

=item B<-scan>

Scans the tape.

=item B<-noask>

Doesn't prompt for each volume.

=item B<-label>

Displays the full dump label.

=item B<-vheaders>

Displays the full volume headers.

=item B<-verbose>

Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the command's
execution.  If this argument is omitted, only warnings and error messages
appear.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command will read the third through fifth volumes from
the tape device /dev/tape without prompting:

   % read_tape -tape /dev/tape -skip 2 -restore 3 -noask

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have access to read and write to the specified tape device.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(8)>,
L<restorevol(8)>,
L<vos_restore(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007 Jason Edgecombe <jason@rampaginggeek.com>

This documentation is covered by the BSD License as written in the
doc/LICENSE file. This man page was written by Jason Edgecombe for
OpenAFS.
