=head1 NAME

tapeconfig - Defines configuration parameters for all tape devices and backup data files
on a Tape Coordinator machine

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The tapeconfig file defines basic configuration parameters for
all of the tape devices or backup data files available for backup operations
on a Tape Coordinator machine. The file is in ASCII format and must
reside in the local B</usr/afs/backup> directory. The
instruction for each tape device or backup data file appears on its own line
and each has the following format:

   [I<capacity>    I<filemark_size>]    I<device_name>    I<port_offset>

where

=over 4

=item I<capacity
>

Specifies the capacity of the tapes used with a tape device, or the amount
of data to write into a backup data file. The Tape Coordinator refers
to this value in two circumstances: 

=over 4

=item *

When the capacity field of a tape or backup data file's label is
empty (because the tape has never been labeled). The Tape Coordinator
records this value on the label and uses it when determining how much data it
can write to the tape or file during a B<backup dump> or B<backup
savedb> operation. If there is already a capacity value on the
label, the Tape Coordinator uses it instead.


=item *

When the -size argument is omitted the first time the
B<backup labeltape> command is used on a given tape or file.
The Tape Coordinator copies this value into the label's capacity
field.


=back

The Tape Coordinator uses this capacity value or the one on the Backup
System tape label to track how much space remains as it writes data to a tape
or backup data file. The appropriate value to record for a tape depends
on the size of the tapes usually used in the device and whether it has a
compression mode; for suggested values, see the I<IBM AFS
Administration Guide> chapter on configuring the Backup System. If
using a value obtained from the B<fms> command, reduce it by 10% to
15% before recording it in the file.

For a backup data file, it is best to provide a value that helps the Tape
Coordinator avoid reaching the end-of-file (EOF) unexpectedly. Make it
at least somewhat smaller than the amount of space available on the partition
housing the file when the dump operation begins, and never larger than the
maximum file size allowed by the operating system.

Specify a (positive) integer or decimal value followed by a letter than
indicates units, with no intervening space. In a decimal number, the
number of digits after the decimal point must not translate to fractions of
bytes. The maximum acceptable value is 2048 GB (2 TB). The
acceptable units letters are as follows; if the letter is omitted, the
default is kilobytes.

=over 4

=item *

B<k>or K for kilobytes (KB)


=item *

B<m> or M for megabytes (MB)


=item *

B<g> or G for gigabytes (GB)


=item *

B<t> or T for terabytes (TB)


=back

If this field is omitted, the Tape Coordinator uses the maximum acceptable
value (2048 GB or 2 TB). Either leave both this field and the
I<filemark_size> field empty, or provide a value in both of them.

=item I<filemark_size
>

Specifies the size of a tape device's filemarks (also called
end-of-file or EOF marks), which is set by the device's
manufacturer. In a dump to tape, the Tape Coordinator inserts filemarks
at the boundary between the data from each volume, so the filemark size
affects how much space is available for actual data. 

The appropriate value to record for a tape depends on the size of the tapes
usually used in the device and whether it has a compression mode; for
suggested values, see the I<IBM AFS Administration Guide> chapter on
configuring the Backup System. If using a value obtained from the
B<fms> command, increase it by 10% to 15% before recording it in the
file.

For backup data files, record a value of 0 (zero). The
Tape Coordinator actually ignores this field for backup data files, because it
does not use filemarks when writing to a file.

Use the same notation as for the I<capacity> field, but note that the
default units is bytes rather than kilobytes. The maximum acceptable
value is 2048 GB.

If this field is empty, the Tape Coordinator uses the value 0
(zero). Either leave both this field and the I<capacity> field
empty, or provide a value in both of them.

=item I<device_name
>

Specifies the complete pathname of the tape device or backup data
file. The format of tape device names depends on the operating system,
but on UNIX systems device names generally begin with the string
B</dev/>. For a backup data file, this field defines the
complete pathname; for a discussion of suggested naming conventions see
the description of the B<FILE> instruction in L<CFG_I<device_name>(1)>.

=item I<port_offset
>

Specifies the port offset number associated with this combination of Tape
Coordinator and tape device or backup data file. 

Acceptable values are the integers B<0> through 58510
(the Backup System can track a maximum of 58,511 port offset numbers).
Each value must be unique among the cell's Tape Coordinators, but any
number of them can be associated with a single machine. Port offset
numbers need not be assigned sequentially, and can appear in any order in the
B<tapeconfig> file. Assign port offset B<0> to the Tape
Coordinator for the tape device or backup data file used most often for backup
operations; doing so will allow the operator to omit the
B<-portoffset> argument from the largest possible number of
B<backup> commands.

=back

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

Creating the file requires UNIX B<w> (write) and
B<x> (B<execute>) permissions on the
B</usr/afs/backup> directory. Editing the file requires UNIX
B<w> (B<write>) permission on the file.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example tapeconfig file configures three tape
devices and a backup data file. The first device has device name
B</dev/rmt/0h>, and is assigned port offset B<0> because it
will be the most frequently used device for all backup operations in the
cell. Its default tape capacity is 2 GB and filemark size is 1
MB. The B</dev/rmt/3h> drive has half the capacity but a much
smaller filemark size; its port offset is B<3>. The third
device listed, B</dev/rmt/4h>, has the same capacity and filemark size
as the first device and is assigned port offset B<2>. Port
offset B<4> is assigned to the backup data file B</dev/FILE>,
which is actually a symbolic link to the actual file located elsewhere on the
local disk. The Tape Coordinator writes up to 1.5 GB into the
file; as recommended, the filemark size is set to zero.

   2G 1M /dev/rmt/0h 0
   1g 4k /dev/rmt/3h 3
   2G 1m /dev/rmt/4h 2
   1.5G 0 /dev/FILE 4

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup_addhost(1)>,
L<backup_dump(1)>,
L<backup_labeltape(1)>,
L<backup_savedb(1)>,
L<butc(1)>,
L<fms(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
