=head1 NAME

uss bulk - Executes multiple uss commands listed in a file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<uss bulk> B<-file> <I<bulk input file>>
    [B<-template> <I<pathname of template file>>] [B<-verbose>]
    [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]
    [B<-admin> <I<administrator to authenticate>>] [B<-dryrun>]
    [B<-skipauth>] [B<-overwrite>]
    [B<-pwexpires> <I<password expires in [0..254] days (0 => never)>>]
    [B<-pipe>] [B<-help>]

B<uss b> B<-f> <I<bulk input file>> [B<-t> <I<pathname of template file>>]
    [B<-v>] [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]
    [B<-a> <I<administrator to authenticate>>] [B<-d>] [B<-s>]
    [B<-o>] [B<-pw> <I<password expires in [0..254] days (0 => never)>>]
    [B<-pi>] [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<uss bulk> command executes the uss commands listed in the I<bulk
input file> specified with the B<-file> argument. If the bulk input file
includes B<add> instructions that reference a template file, then the
B<-template> argument is required.

To create a single account, use the B<uss add> command. To delete one or
more accounts, use the B<uss delete> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-file> <I<bulk input file>>

Specifies the pathname of the bulk input file. Partial pathnames are
interpreted relative to the current working directory. For details on the
file's format, see L<uss_bulk(5)>.

=item B<-template> <I<pathname of template file>>

Specifies the pathname of the template file for any uss add commands that
appear in the bulk input file. Partial pathnames are interpreted relative
to the current working directory. For details on the file's format, see
L<uss(5)>.

=item B<-verbose>

Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the command's
execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings and error messages
appear.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Specifies the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
L<uss(8)>.

=item B<-admin> <I<administrator to authenticate>>

Specifies the AFS user name under which to establish authenticated
connections to the AFS server processes that maintain the various
components of a user account. For more details, see L<uss(8)>.

=item B<-dryrun>

Reports actions that the command interpreter needs to perform while
executing the command, without actually performing them. For more details,
see L<uss(8)>.

=item B<-skipauth>

Prevents authentication with the AFS Authentication Server, allowing a
site using Kerberos to substitute that form of authentication.

=item B<-overwrite>

Overwrites any directories, files and links that exist in the file system
and for which there are also C<D>, C<E>, C<F>, C<L>, or C<S> instructions
in a template file referenced by an C<add> instruction in the bulk input
file. If this flag is omitted, the command interpreter prompts, once for
each C<add> instruction in the bulk input file, for confirmation that it
should overwrite such elements. Do not include this flag if the bulk input
file does not contain C<add> instructions.

=item B<-pwexpires> <I<password expiration>>

Sets the number of days after a user's password is changed that it remains
valid, for each user named by an C<add> instruction in the bulk input
file. Provide an integer from the range C<1> through C<254> to specify the
number of days until expiration, or the value C<0> to indicate that the
password never expires (the default).

When the password becomes invalid (expires), the user is unable to
authenticate, but has 30 more days in which to issue the B<kpasswd>
command to change the password (after that, only an administrator can
change it).

=item B<-pipe>

Suppresses the Authentication Server's prompt for the password of the
issuer or the user named by the B<-admin> argument (the Authentication
Server always separately authenticates the creator of an entry in the
Authentication Database). Instead, the command interpreter accepts the
password via the standard input stream, as piped in from another
program. This enables the B<uss bulk> command to run as part of unattended
batch jobs.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example command executes the instructions in the bulk input
file called F<new_students>, which includes C<add> instructions that refer
to the template file F<student.template>. Both files reside in the current
working directory.

   % uss bulk new_students student.template

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer (or the user named by the B<-admin> argument) must have the
privileges necessary to run the commands that correspond to instructions
in the bulk input file.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<uss(5)>,
L<uss_bulk(5)>,
L<uss(8)>,
L<uss_add(8)>,
L<uss_delete(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
