=head1 NAME

uss delete - Deletes a user account

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<uss delete> B<-user> <I<login name>>
    [B<-mountpoint> <I<mountpoint for user's volume>>]
    [B<-savevolume>] [B<-verbose>] [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]
    [B<-admin> <I<administrator to authenticate>>] [B<-dryrun>]
    [B<-skipauth>] [B<-help>]

B<uss d> B<-u> <I<login name>> [B<-m> <I<mountpoint for user's volume>>]
    [B<-sa>] [B<-v>] [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]
    [B<-a> <I<administrator to authenticate>>] [B<-d>] [B<-sk>] [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<uss delete> command removes the Authentication Database and
Protection Database entries for the user named by B<-user> argument. In
addition, it can remove the user's home volume and associated VLDB entry,
a mount point for the volume or both, depending on whether the
B<-mountpoint> and B<-savevolume> options are provided.

=over 4

=item *

To remove both the volume and mount point, use the B<-mountpoint> argument
to name the user's home directory. It is best to create a tape backup of a
volume before deleting it. Note that other mount points for the volume are
not removed, if they exist.

=item *

To remove the mount point only, provide both the B<-mountpoint> and
B<-savevolume> options.

=item *

To preserve both the volume and mount point, omit the B<-mountpoint>
argument (or both it and the B<-savevolume> flag).

=back

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-user> <I<login name>>

Names the entry to delete from the Protection and Authentication
Databases.

=item B<-mountpoint> <I<mountpoint for the user's volume>>

Specifies the pathname to the user's home directory, which is deleted from
the filespace. By default, the volume referenced by the mount point is
also removed from the file server machine that houses it, along with its
Volume Location Database (VLDB) entry. To retain the volume and VLDB
entry, include the B<-savevolume> flag. Partial pathnames are interpreted
relative to the current working directory.

Specify the read/write path to the mount point, to avoid the failure that
results from attempting to remove a mount point from a read-only
volume. By convention, the read/write path is indicated by placing a
period before the cell name at the pathname's second level (for example,
F</afs/.abc.com>). For further discussion of the concept of read/write and
read-only paths through the filespace, see the B<fs mkmount> reference
page.

=item B<-savevolume>

Preserves the user's volume and VLDB entry.

=item B<-verbose>

Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the command's
execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings and error messages
appear.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Specifies the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
L<uss(8)>.

=item B<-admin> <I<administrator to authenticate>>

Specifies the AFS user name under which to establish authenticated
connections to the AFS server processes that maintain the various
components of a user account. For more details, see L<uss(8)>.

=item B<-dryrun>

Reports actions that the command interpreter needs to perform while
executing the command, without actually performing them. For more details,
see L<uss(8)>.

=item B<-skipauth>

Prevents authentication with the AFS Authentication Server, allowing a
site using Kerberos to substitute that form of authentication.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command removes smith's user account from the C<abc.com>
cell. The B<-savevolume> argument retains the C<user.smith> volume on its
file server machine.

   % uss delete smith -mountpoint /afs/abc.com/usr/smith -savevolume

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer (or the user named by B<-admin> argument) must belong to the
system:administrators group in the Protection Database, must have the
C<ADMIN> flag turned on in his or her Authentication Database entry, and
must have at least C<a> (administer) and C<d> (delete) permissions on the
access control list (ACL) of the mount point's parent directory. If the
B<-savevolume> flag is not included, the issuer must also be listed in the
F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<UserList(5)>,
L<fs_mkmount(1)>,
L<uss(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
