=head1 NAME

uss add - Creates a user account

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<uss add> B<-user> <I<login name>> [B<-realname> <I<full name in quotes>>]
    [B<-pass> <I<initial password>>]  
    [B<-pwexpires> <I<< password expires in [0..254] days (0 => never) >>>]
    [B<-server> <I<file server for home volume>>] 
    [B<-partition> <I<file server's disk partition for home volume>>] 
    [B<-mount> <I<home directory mount point>>]
    [B<-uid> <I<uid to assign the user>>]
    [B<-template> <I<pathname of template file>>] 
    [B<-verbose>] [B<-var> <I<auxiliary argument pairs (Num val)>>+] 
    [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] [B<-admin> <I<administrator to authenticate>>]
    [B<-dryrun>] [B<-skipauth>] [B<-overwrite>] [B<-help>]

B<uss ad> B<-us> <I<login name>> [B<-r> <I<full name in quotes>>]   
    [B<-pas> <I<initial password>>]
    [B<-pw> <I<< password expires in [0..254] days (0 => never) >>>]  
    [B<-se> <I<FileServer for home volume>>] 
    [B<-par> <I<FileServer's disk partition for home volume>>] 
    [B<-m> <I<home directory mount point>>]
    [B<-ui> <I<uid to assign the user>>]
    [B<-t> <I<pathname of template file>>] [B<-ve>]
    [B<-va> <I<auxiliary argument pairs (Num val)>>+] [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]
    [B<-a> <I<administrator to authenticate>>] [B<-d>] [B<-sk>] [B<-o>]
    [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<uss add> command creates entries in the Protection Database and
Authentication Database for the user name specified by the B<-user>
argument. By default, the Protection Server automatically allocates an AFS
user ID (UID) for the new user; to specify an alternate AFS UID, include
the B<-uid> argument. If a password is provided with the B<-pass>
argument, it is stored as the user's password in the Authentication
Database after conversion into a form suitable for use as an encryption
key. Otherwise, the string C<changeme> is assigned as the user's initial
password.

The other results of the command depend on which instructions and which of
a defined set of variables appear in the template file specified with the
B<-template> argument. Many of the command's arguments supply a value for
one of the defined variables, and failure to provide an argument when the
corresponding variable appears in the template file halts the account
creation process at the point where the command interpreter first
encounters the variable in the template file.

To create multiple accounts with a single command, use the B<uss bulk>
command. To delete accounts with a single command, use the B<uss delete>
command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-user> <I<login name>>

Names the user's Authentication Database and Protection Database
entries. It can include up to eight alphanumeric characters, but not any
of the following characters: C<:> (colon), C<@> (at-sign), C<.> (period),
space, or newline. Because it becomes the username (the name under which a
user logs in), it is best not to include shell metacharacters and to obey
the restrictions that many operating systems impose on usernames (usually,
to contain no more than eight lowercase letters).

Corresponding variable in the template file: $USER.

=item B<-realname> <I<full name in quotes>>

Specifies the user's full name. If it contains spaces or punctuation,
surround it with double quotes. If not provided, it defaults to the user
name provided with the B<-user> argument.

Corresponding variable in the template file: $NAME. Many operating systems
include a field for the full name in a user's entry in the local password
file (F</etc/passwd> or equivalent), and this variable can be used to pass
a value to be used in that field.

=item B<-pass> <I<initial password>>

Specifies the user's initial password. Although the AFS commands that
handle passwords accept strings of virtually unlimited length, it is best
to use a password of eight characters or less, which is the maximum length
that many applications and utilities accept. If not provided, this
argument defaults to the string C<changeme>.

Corresponding variable in the template file: none.

=item B<-pwexpires> <I<password expiration>>

Sets the number of days after a user's password is changed that it remains
valid. Provide an integer from the range C<1> through C<254> to specify
the number of days until expiration, or the value C<0> to indicate that
the password never expires (the default).

When the password becomes invalid (expires), the user is unable to
authenticate, but has 30 more days in which to issue the B<kpasswd>
command to change the password (after that, only an administrator can
change it).

Corresponding variable in the template file: $PWEXPIRES.

=item B<-server> <I<file server name>>

Names the file server machine on which to create the new user's volume. It
is best to provide a fully qualified hostname (for example,
C<fs1.abc.com>), but an abbreviated form is acceptable provided that the
cell's naming service is available to resolve it at the time the volume is
created.

Corresponding variable in the template file: $SERVER.

=item B<-partition> <I<file server partition>>

Specifies the partition on which to create the user's volume; it must be
on the file server machine named by the B<-server> argument. Provide the
complete partition name (for example F</vicepa>) or one of the following
abbreviated forms:

   /vicepa     =     vicepa      =      a      =      0
   /vicepb     =     vicepb      =      b      =      1

After F</vicepz> (for which the index is 25) comes 

   /vicepaa    =     vicepaa     =      aa     =      26
   /vicepab    =     vicepab     =      ab     =      27

and so on through 

   /vicepiv    =     vicepiv     =      iv     =      255

Corresponding variable in the template file: $PART.

=item B<-mount> <I<home directory mount point>>

Specifies the pathname for the user's home directory. Partial pathnames
are interpreted relative to the current working directory.

Specify the read/write path to the directory, to avoid the failure that
results from attempting to create a new mount point in a read-only
volume. By convention, the read/write path is indicated by placing a
period before the cell name at the pathname's second level (for example,
F</afs/.abc.com>). For further discussion of the concept of read/write and
read-only paths through the filespace, see the B<fs mkmount> reference
page.

Corresponding variable in template: $MTPT, but in the template file's C<V>
instruction only. Occurrences of the $MTPT variable in template
instructions that follow the C<V> instruction take their value from the
C<V> instruction's I<mount_point> field. Thus the value of this command
line argument becomes the value for the $MTPT variable in instructions
that follow the C<V> instruction only if the string $MTPT appears alone in
the C<V> instruction's I<mount_point> field.

=item B<-uid> <I<uid to assign the user>>

Specifies a positive integer other than 0 (zero) to assign as the user's
AFS UID. If this argument is omitted, the Protection Server assigns an AFS
UID that is one greater than the current value of the C<max user id>
counter (use the B<pts listmax> command to display the counter). If
including this argument, it is best first to use the B<pts examine>
command to verify that no existing account already has the desired AFS
UID; it one does, the account creation process terminates with an error.

Corresponding variable in the template file: $UID.

=item B<-template> <I<pathname of template file>>

Specifies the pathname of the template file. If this argument is omitted,
the command interpreter searches the following directories in the
indicated order for a file called C<uss.template>:

=over 4

=item *

The current working directory.

=item *

F</afs/I<cellname>/common/uss>, where I<cellname> names the local cell.

=item *

F</etc>

=back

If the issuer provides a filename other than C<uss.template> but without a
pathname, the command interpreter searches for it in the indicated
directories. If the issuer provides a full or partial pathname, the
command interpreter consults the specified file only; it interprets
partial pathnames relative to the current working directory.

If the specified template file is empty (zero-length), the command creates
Protection and Authentication Database entries only.

L<uss(5)> details the file's format.

=item B<-verbose>

Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the command's
execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings and error messages
appear.

=item B<-var> <I<auxilliary argument pairs>>

Specifies values for each of the number variables $1 through $9 that can
appear in the template file. Use the number variables to assign values to
variables in the B<uss> template file that are not part of the standard
set.

Corresponding variables in the template file: $1 through $9.

For each instance of this argument, provide two parts in the indicated
order, separated by a space:

=over 4

=item *

The integer from the range C<1> through C<9> that matches the variable in
the template file. Do not precede it with a dollar sign.

=item *

A string of alphanumeric characters to assign as the value of the
variable.

=back

See the chapter on uss in the I<IBM AFS Administration Guide> for further
explanation.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Specifies the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
L<uss(8)>.

=item B<-admin> <I<administrator to authenticate>>

Specifies the AFS user name under which to establish authenticated
connections to the AFS server processes that maintain the various
components of a user account. For more details, see L<uss(8)>.

=item B<-dryrun>

Reports actions that the command interpreter needs to perform while
executing the command, without actually performing them. For more details,
see L<uss(8)>.

=item B<-skipauth>

Prevents authentication with the AFS Authentication Server, allowing a
site using Kerberos to substitute that form of authentication.

=item B<-overwrite>

Overwrites any directories, files and links that exist in the file system
and for which there are definitions in C<D>, C<E>, C<F>, C<L>, or C<S>
instructions in the template file named by the B<-template> argument. If
this flag is omitted, the command interpreter prompts once for
confirmation that it is to overwrite all such elements.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The combination of the following example uss add command and C<V>
instruction in a template file called C<uss.tpl> creates Protection and
Authentication Database entries named C<smith>, and a volume called
C<user.smith> with a quota of 2500 kilobyte blocks, mounted at the
pathname F</afs/abc.com/usr/smith>. The access control list (ACL) on the
mount point grants C<smith> all rights.

The issuer of the B<uss add> command provides only the template file's
name, not its complete pathname, because it resides in the current working
directory. The command and C<V> instruction appear here on two lines only
for legibility; there are no line breaks in the actual instruction or
command.

   V user.$USER $SERVER.abc.com /vice$PART $1 \
       /afs/abc.com/usr/$USER $UID $USER all

   % uss add -user smith -realname "John Smith" -pass js_pswd \
       -server fs2 -partition b -template uss.tpl -var 1 2500

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer (or the user named by the B<-admin> argument) must belong to
the system:administrators group in the Protection Database and must have
the C<ADMIN> flag turned on in his or her Authentication Database entry.

If the template contains a C<V> instruction, the issuer must be listed in
the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file and must have at least C<a> (administer)
and C<i> (insert) permissions on the ACL of the directory that houses the
new mount point. If the template file includes instructions for creating
other types of objects (directories, files or links), the issuer must have
each privilege necessary to create them.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<UserList(5)>,
L<uss(5)>,
L<fs_mkmount(1)>,
L<uss(8)>,
L<uss_bulk(8)>,
L<uss_delete(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
