=head1 NAME

vldb_convert - Convert the VLDB to/from Transarc AFS versions 3.1-3.4a

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<vldb_convert> [B<initcmd>] S<<< [B<-to>] <I<AFS version goal>> >>>
    S<<< [B<-from>] <I<current AFS version>> >>>
    S<<< [B<-path>] <I<path to VLDB file>> >>> [B<-showversion>]
    [B<-dumpvldb>] [B<-help>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<vldb_convert> command is used to convert legacy Transarc 3.1-3.4
VLDB database files between versions. This command is not needed when
using OpenAFS except in the case of preparing to migrate a pre-3.4 version
of Transarc AFS to OpenAFS.

In order to convert the VLDB file, do the following:

=over 4

=item 1.

Shutdown the B<vlserver> process on all server machines. B<vlserver> is
typically run only on the Cell servers, which must be listed in
F<CellServDB> or DNS.

=item 2.

Backup the VLDB file F</usr/afs/db/vldb.DB0> on the sync site to a safe
place. Typically, the sync site if the machine with the lowest IP address.

=item 3.

Remove the F</usr/afs/db/vldb.DBSYS1> file from all cell server machines.

=item 4.

Remove the F</usr/afs/db/vldb.DB0> file from the non-sync site server
machines.

=item 5.

Run the B<vldb_convert> command on the VLDB file using the following
command:

   # vldb_convert -path /usr/afs/db/vldb.DB0

=item 6.

Copy the new version of the vlserver binaries to all Cell servers.

=item 7.

Restart the vlserver process on all Cell servers. The new VLDB will be
distributed to all of the Cell servers.

=item 8.

Confirm that all Cell servers are synchronized and that the vldb looks in
good shape.

=back

=head1 CAUTIONS

Backup the VLDB file to a different directory or machine before performing
the upgrade. Be sure that all vlserver processes are always running the
same version. This requires downtime, but for this conversion, all
vlserver instances must be at the same version. This restriction is
relaxed in OpenAFS.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<initcmd>

This is an optional string that does nothing.

=item B<-to> <I<AFS version goal>>

This option is required when downgrading or when upgrading to a version
less than 3.4.  Specify 1, 2, 3, or 4 to choose version 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, or
3,4 respectively. This defaults to version 3.4.

=item B<-from> <I<current AFS version>>

This option is required when downgrading. Specify 1, 2, 3, or 4 to choose
version 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, or 3.4 respectively.

=item B<-path> <I<path to VLDB file>>

Specifies the path the VLDB file. This defaults to F</usr/afs/db/vldb.DB0>
and only needs to be used if the VLDB file is not in the default path..

=item B<-showversion>

Shows the current version of the VLDB. This option can only be used by itself.

=item B<-dumpvldb>

Produces verbose debugging output during the conversion process.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have read and write access to the file
F</usr/afs/db/vldb.DB0>. This usually means that root access is required
on the cell server machines.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<vlserver(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2008 Jason Edgecombe <jason@rampaginggeek.com>

This documentation is covered by the BSD License as written in the
doc/LICENSE file. This man page was written by Jason Edgecombe for
OpenAFS.
