=head1 NAME

volserver - Initializes the Volume Server component of the fs process

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<volserver> [B<-log>] S<<< [B<-p> <I<number of processes>>] >>>
    S<<< [B<-udpsize> <I<size of socket buffer in bytes>>] >>>
    [B<-enable_peer_stats>] [B<-enable_process_stats>] [B<-help>]

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<volserver> command initializes the Volume Server component of the
C<fs> process. In the conventional configuration, its binary file is
located in the F</usr/afs/bin> directory on a file server machine.

The B<volserver> command is not normally issued at the command shell
prompt but rather placed into a file server machine's
F</usr/afs/local/BosConfig> file with the B<bos create> command. If it is
ever issued at the command shell prompt, the issuer must be logged onto a
database server machine as the local superuser C<root>.

The Volume Server records a trace of its activity in the
F</usr/afs/logs/VolserLog> file. Use the B<bos getlog> command to display
the contents of the file.

The Volume Server processes the B<vos> commands that administrators use to
create, delete, move, and replicate volumes, as well as prepare them for
archiving to tape or other media.

By default, the VL Server runs nine lightweight processes (LWPs). To
change the number, use the B<-p> argument.

This command does not use the syntax conventions of the AFS command
suites. Provide the command name and all option names in full.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-log>

Records in the /usr/afs/logs/VolserLog file the names of all users who
successfully initiate a B<vos> command. The Volume Server also records any
file removals that result from issuing the B<vos release> command with the
B<-f> flag.

=item B<-p> <I<number of processes>>

Sets the number of server lightweight processes (LWPs) to run.  Provide an
integer between C<4> and C<16>. The default is C<9>.

=item B<-udpsize> <I<size of socket buffer>>

Sets the size of the UDP buffer in bytes, which is 64 KB by
default. Provide a positive integer, preferably larger than the default.

=item B<-enable_peer_stats>

Activates the collection of Rx statistics and allocates memory for their
storage. For each connection with a specific UDP port on another machine,
a separate record is kept for each type of RPC (FetchFile, GetStatus, and
so on) sent or received. To display or otherwise access the records, use
the Rx Monitoring API.

=item B<-enable_process_stats>

Activates the collection of Rx statistics and allocates memory for their
storage. A separate record is kept for each type of RPC (FetchFile,
GetStatus, and so on) sent or received, aggregated over all connections to
other machines. To display or otherwise access the records, use the Rx
Monitoring API.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following B<bos create> command creates a C<volserver> process on the
machine C<fs2.abc.com>:

   % bos create -server fs2.abc.com -instance volserver -type simple \
                 -cmd /usr/afs/bin/volserver

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be logged in as the superuser C<root> on a file server
machine to issue the command at a command shell prompt. It is conventional
instead to create and start the process by issuing the B<bos create>
command.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<BosConfig(5)>,
L<VolserLog(5)>,
L<bos_create(8)>,
L<bos_getlog(8)>,
L<vos(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
