=head1 NAME

xfs_size_check - Verifies proper IRIX inode configuration

=head1 SYNOPSIS

=for html
<div class="synopsis">

B<xfs_size_check>

=for html
</div>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<xfs_size_check> command, when run on a file server machine that runs
IRIX version 6.2 or higher and uses XFS-formatted partitions as server
partitions (conventionally mounted at F</vicep> directories), verifies
that each partition uses 512-byte inodes. AFS stores information in the
inodes on server partitions, and the 256-byte inode size that XFS uses by
default is not large enough.

=head1 CAUTIONS

This command is available on in the AFS distribution for IRIX system types
that can use XFS-formatted partitions as server partitions.

=head1 OUTPUT

If all server partitions are properly configured, the command produces no
output. Otherwise, it prints the following header:

   Need to remake the following partitions:

and then the following message for each partition on which to run the IRIX
B<mkfs> command with the indicated options:

   <device>: mkfs -t xfs -i size=512 -l size=4000b <device>

where <device> is in a format like C</dev/dsk/dks0d0s0> for a single disk
partition or C</dev/xlv/xlv0> for a logical volume.

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be logged in as the local superuser C<root>.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
