=head1 NAME

xstat_cm_test - Displays data collections from the Cache Manager

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<xstat_cm_test> [B<initcmd>] -cmname <I<Cache Manager name(s) to monitor>>+
B<-collID> <I<Collection(s) to fetch>>+  [B<-onceonly>]  
              [-frequency <I<poll frequency, in seconds>>]  
              [B<-period> <I<data collection time, in minutes>>]  [B<-debug>]  [-help]

B<xstat_cm_test> [B<i>] -cm <I<Cache Manager name(s) to monitor>>+
B<-co> <I<Collection(s) to fetch>>+  [B<-o>]  
              [-f <I<poll frequency, in seconds>>]  
              [B<-p> <I<data collection time, in minutes>>]  [B<-d>]  [-h]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The xstat_cm_test command tests the routines in the
B<libxstat_cm.a> library and displays the data collections
associated with the Cache Manager. The command executes in the
foreground.

The command produces a large volume of output; to save it for later
analysis, direct it to a file.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item initcmd

Accommodates the command's use of the AFS command parser, and is
optional.

=item -cmname

Specifies the fully qualified hostname of each client machine for which to
monitor the Cache Manager.

=item -collID

Specifies each data collection to return, which defines the type and
amount of data the command interpreter gathers about the Cache Manager.
Data is returned in a predefined data structure.

There are three acceptable values: 

=over 4

=item 0

Provides profiling information about the numbers of times different
internal Cache Manager routines were called since the Cache Manager
started.

=item 1

Reports various internal performance statistics related to the Cache
Manager (for example, statistics about how effectively the cache is being used
and the quantity of intracell and intercell data access).

=item 2

Reports all of the internal performance statistics provided by the
B<1> setting, plus some additional, detailed performance figures (for
example, statistics about the number of RPCs sent by the Cache Manager and how
long they take to complete, and statistics regarding authentication, access,
and PAG information associated with data access).

=back

=item -onceonly

Gathers statistics just one time. Omit this flag to have the
command continue to probe the Cache Manager for statistics at the frequency
specified by the B<-frequency> argument; in this case press
<B<Ctrl-c>> to stop the probes.

=item -frequency

Sets the frequency in seconds at which the program initiates probes to the
Cache Manager. The default is 30 seconds.

=item -period

Sets the number of minutes the program runs; at the end of this
period of time, the program exits. The default is 10 minutes.

=item -debug

Displays a trace on the standard output stream as the command runs.

=item -help

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<xstat_fs_test(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
