=head1 NAME

afs.keytab - Contains AFS server encryption keys

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The F<afs.keytab> file defines the server encryption keys that the AFS server
processes running on the machine use to decrypt the tickets presented by
clients using rxk5.  AFS server processes
perform privileged actions only for clients that possess a ticket
encrypted with one of the entries from the file.
The file must reside in the
F</usr/afs/etc> directory on every server machine.
If the keytab does not exist when a server process starts up,
that process will decide not to accept any authentication, at least via rxk5.
This is almost never desirable.
For more detailed
information on mutual authentication and server encryption keys, see the
I<OpenAFS Administration Guide>.

Each key has a corresponding a key version number that distinguishes it
from the other keys. The tickets that clients present are also marked with
a service principal and key version number to tell the server process which
key to use to decrypt it. The F<afs.keytab> file must always include the
same principals, keys, and key versions as the corresponding entries in
the realm's kerberos 5 database.

The F<afs.keytab> file is in binary format, so always use the appropriate
commands from kerberos to administer it:

=over 4

=item *

The B<kadmin> command to define a new key.

=item *

The B<klist> command to display the keys.

=item *

The B<ktutil> command to remove a key from the file.

=back

This file should contain service principals that are named
afs-k5/I<cell-name>@I<realm-name> .
cell-name should be in lower-case; realm-name should be your kerberos
5 realm, normally the upper-case version of the cell name.

You can update the keytab at any time, even while server processes are running.
You may need to restart server processes if the keytab did not exist
when they were started.

In cells that use the Update Server to distribute the contents of the
F</usr/afs/etc> directory, it is customary to edit only the copy of the
file stored on the system control machine. Otherwise, edit the file on
each server machine individually.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<klist(1)>,
L<kadmin(8)>,
L<ktutil(8)>,
L<upclient(8)>,
L<upserver(8)>

I<OpenAFS Administration Guide>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

See L<umich.copyright(8)>.
