=head1 NAME

afs - Introduction to AFS files

=head1 DESCRIPTION

A number of files must reside on the local disk of AFS server and client
machines. They belong to the following general categories:

=over 4

=item *

I<Configuration files> define configuration parameters for specific server
and kernel processes such as the Backup System Tape Coordinator or the
Cache Manager.

=item *

I<Administrative files> list information used in administration of server
machines, such as a list of privileged users or server encryption keys.

=item *

I<Cache-related files> contain cached data or information about cached
data, on client machines.

=item *

I<Log files> contain tracing messages about the operation of a specific
process.

=item *

I<Database files> contain database records used to administer the AFS
cell.

=item *

I<Controller files> control the behavior of a process.

=item *

I<Volume header files> represent AFS volumes on server partitions.

=back

For a description of the format and contents of each file, see its
reference page.

Note for Windows users: Some files described in this document possibly do
not exist on machines that run a Windows operating system. Also, Windows
uses a backslash (C<\>) rather than a forward slash (C</>) to separate the
elements in a pathname.

=head1 SEE ALSO

Configuration files:

=over 4

=item L<BosConfig(5)>

=item L<CellServDB(5)>

=item L<NetInfo(5)>

=item L<NetRestrict(5)>

=item L<ThisCell(5)>

=item L<butc(5)>

=item L<cacheinfo(5)>

=item L<package(5)>

=item L<sysid(5)>

=item L<tapeconfig(5)>

=item L<uss(5)>

=item L<uss_bulk(5)>

=back

Administrative files:

=over 4

=item L<KeyFile(5)>

=item L<UserList(5)>

=back

Cache-related files:

=over 4

=item L<afs_cache(5)>

=back

Log files:

=over 4

=item L<AuthLog(5)>

=item L<BackupLog(5)>

=item L<BosLog(5)>

=item L<FileLog(5)>

=item L<SalvageLog(5)>

=item L<VLLog(5)>

=item L<VolserLog(5)>

=item L<butc(5)>

=item L<fms.log(5)>

=back

Database files:

=over 4

=item L<bdb.DB0(5)>

=item L<kaserver.DB0(5)>

=item L<kaserverauxdb(5)>

=item L<prdb.DB0(5)>

=item L<vldb.DB0(5)>

=back

Controller files:

=over 4

=item L<FORCESALVAGE(5)>

=item L<NoAuth(5)>

=item L<SALVAGE.fs(5)>

=item L<salvage.lock(5)>

=back

Volume header files:

=over 4

=item L<afs_volume_header(5)>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
