=head1 NAME

afsmonitor - Provides instructions for the afsmonitor command

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The afsmonitor configuration file determines which machines the
B<afsmonitor> command probes for File Server or Cache Manager statistics
and which statistics it gathers. Use the B<-config> argument to the
B<afsmonitor> command to identify the configuration file to use.

The instructions that can appear in the configuration file are as follows:

=over 4

=item cm <I<host name>>

Names a client machine for which to display Cache Manager statistics. The
order of C<cm> lines in the file determines the order in which client
machines appear from top to bottom on the C<System Overview> and C<Cache
Managers> output screens.

=item fs <I<host name>>

Names a file server machine for which to display File Server
statistics. The order of C<fs> lines in the file determines the order in
which file server machines appear from top to bottom on the C<System
Overview> and C<File Servers> output screens.

=item thresh (fs | cm) <I<field>> <I<thresh>> [<I<cmd>>] [<I<arg>> ...]

Assigns the threshold value I<thresh> to the statistic I<field>, for
either a File Server statistic (C<fs>) or a Cache Manager statistic
(C<cm>). The optional I<cmd> field names a binary or script to execute
each time the value of the statistic changes from being below I<thresh> to
being at or above I<thresh>. A change between two values that both exceed
I<thresh> does not retrigger the binary or script. The optional I<arg>
fields are additional values that the B<afsmonitor> program passes as
arguments to the I<cmd> command. If any of them include one or more
spaces, enclose the entire field in double quotes.

The B<afsmonitor> program passes the following parameters to the I<cmd>:

    <hostname> (fs|cm) <field> <thresh> <actual> [<arg> ...]

The parameters C<fs>, C<cm>, <field>, <thresh>, and <arg> correspond to
the values with the same name on the thresh line. The <hostname> parameter
identifies the file server or client machine where the statistic has
crossed the threshold, and the <actual> parameter is the actual value of
<field> that exceeds the threshold value.

Use the C<thresh> line to set either a global threshold, which applies to
all file server machines listed on C<fs> lines or client machines listed
on C<cm> lines in the configuration file, or a machine-specific threshold,
which applies to only one file server or client machine.

=over 4

=item *

To set a global threshold, place the thresh line before any of the C<fs>
or C<cm> lines in the file.

=item *

To set a machine-specific threshold, place the thresh line below the
corresponding C<fs> or C<cm> line, and above any other C<fs> or C<cm>
lines. A machine-specific threshold value always overrides the
corresponding global threshold, if set. Do not place a C<thresh fs> line
directly after a C<cm> line or a C<thresh cm> line directly after a C<fs>
line.

=back

=item show (fs | cm) I<field/group/section>

Specifies which individual statistic, group of statistics, or section of
statistics to display on the C<File Servers> screen (C<fs>) or C<Cache
Managers> screen (C<cm>) and the order in which to display them. The
appendix of B<afsmonitor> statistics in the I<IBM AFS Administration
Guide> specifies the group and section to which each statistic
belongs. Include as many C<show> lines as necessary to customize the
screen display as desired, and place them anywhere in the file. The
top-to-bottom order of the C<show> lines in the configuration file
determines the left-to-right order in which the statistics appear on the
corresponding screen.

If there are no C<show> lines in the configuration file, then the screens
display all statistics for both Cache Managers and File
Servers. Similarly, if there are no C<show fs> lines, the C<File Servers>
screen displays all file server statistics, and if there are no C<show cm>
lines, the C<Cache Managers> screen displays all client statistics.

=item # I<comments>

Precedes a line of text that the afsmonitor program ignores because of the
initial number (C<#>) sign, which must appear in the very first column of
the line.

=back

For a list of the values that can appear in the I<field/group/section>
field of a C<show> instruction, see the B<afsmonitor> statistics appendix
to the I<IBM AFS Administration Guide>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<afsmonitor(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
