=head1 NAME

BosLog - Traces BOS Server operations

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The F<BosLog> file records a trace of Basic OverSeer (BOS) Server
(B<bosserver> process) operations on the local machine and describes any
error conditions it encounters.

If the F<BosLog> file does not already exist in the F</usr/afs/logs>
directory when the BOS Server starts, the server process creates it and
writes initial start-up messages to it. If there is an existing file, the
BOS server renames it to F<BosLog.old>, overwriting the existing
F<BosLog.old> file if it exists.

The file is in ASCII format. Administrators listed in the
F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file can use the B<bos getlog> command to display
its contents. Alternatively, log onto the server machine and use a text
editor or a file display command such as the UNIX B<cat> command. By
default, the mode bits on the F<BosLog> file grant the required C<r>
(read) permission to all users.

The BOS Server records operations only as it completes them, and cannot
recover from failures by reviewing the file. The log contents are useful
for administrative evaluation of process failures and other problems.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<UserList(5)>,
L<bos_getlog(8)>,
L<bosserver(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
