=head1 NAME

cacheinfo - Defines configuration parameters for the Cache Manager

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The cacheinfo file defines configuration parameters for the
Cache Manager, which reads the file as it initializes.

The file contains a single line of ASCII text and must reside in the
B</usr/vice/etc> directory. Use a text editor to create it
during initial configuration of the client machine; the required format
is as follows:

   I<mount_dir>:I<cache_dir>:I<cache_size>

where

=over 4

=item I<mount_dir
>

Names the local disk directory at which the Cache Manager mounts the AFS
namespace. It must exist before the B<afsd> program
runs. The conventional value is B</afs>. Using any other
value prevents traversal of pathnames that begin with B</afs> (such as
pathnames to files in foreign cells that do use the conventional name).
The B<-mountdir> argument to the B<afsd> command overrides
this value.

=item I<cache_dir
>

Names the local disk directory to use as a cache. It must exist
before the B<afsd> program runs. The standard value is
B</usr/vice/cache>, but it is acceptable to substitute a directory on
a partition with more available space. Although the Cache Manager
ignores this field when configuring a memory cache, a value must always appear
in it. The B<-cachedir> argument to the B<afsd> command
overrides this value.

=item I<cache_size
>

Specifies the cache size as a number of 1-kilobyte blocks. Larger
caches generally yield better performance, but a disk cache must not exceed
90% of the space available on the cache partition (85% for AIX systems), and a
memory cache must use no more than 25% of available machine memory. 

The B<-blocks> argument to the afsd command overrides
this value. To reset cache size without rebooting on a machine that
uses disk caching, use the B<fs setcachesize> command. To
display the current size of a disk or memory cache between reboots, use the
B<fs getcacheparms> command.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example cacheinfo file mounts the AFS namespace at
B</afs>, establishes a disk cache in the B</usr/vice/cache>
directory, and defines cache size as 50,000 1-kilobyte blocks.

   /afs:/usr/vice/cache:50000

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<afsd(1)>,
L<fs_getcacheparms(1)>,
L<fs_setcachesize(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
