=head1 NAME

CacheItems - Records information about each VI<n> file in a disk cache

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The CacheItems file records information about each file in the
disk cache on a client machine (each B<V>I<n> file). The
information includes the file ID number and associated volume version number
of the AFS file currently stored in the B<V>I<n> file, which
enables the Cache Manager to determine which B<V>I<n> file
contains the AFS data it needs to present to an application.

As it initializes, the Cache Manager creates the binary-format
B<CacheItems> file in the same local disk cache directory as the
B<V>I<n> files that the B<CacheItems> file describes,
and it must always remain there. The conventional directory name is
B</usr/vice/cache>, but it is acceptable to use a directory on a
partition with more available space.

=head1 CAUTIONS

Editing or removing the CacheItems file can cause a kernel
panic. If the contents of B<V>I<n> files seem out of
date, clear the files by using the B<fs flush> or B<fs
flushvolume> command. If the B<CacheItems> file is
accidentally modified or deleted, rebooting the machine usually restores
normal performance.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<VI<n>(1)>,
L<VolumeItems(1)>,
L<cacheinfo(1)>,
L<afsd(1)>,
L<fs_flush(1)>,
L<fs_flushvolume(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
