=head1 NAME

CellAlias - Maps cell names to aliases in /afs

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The F<CellAlias> file is used when the AFS Cache Manager is Dynamic Root
(B<-dynroot>) mode. It creates symbolic links in the dynamic root that
link an alias for a cell (usually a short name) to the full name for the
cell.

The most common use of this configuration file is to allow short names for
frequently used cell names. Traditionally, such short names would be
created by the local AFS administrator by creating symbolic links in the
C<root.afs> volume. Such symlinks do not appear when Dynamic Root is
enabled because, with Dynamic Root, the Cache Manager does not mount or
look at the C<root.afs> volume. F<CellAlias> is a replacement that allows
such short names to be created under the client control.

If you configure a short name mapping such as C<ir> for
C<ir.stanford.edu>, the mapping of C<.ir> to C<.ir.stanford.edu> for the
read/write version of the C<root.cell> volume for that cell will be
created automatically. There is no need to list that alias separately (and
it is listed separately, B<afsd> will report an error on startup).

The contents of the F<CellAlias> file should consist of one line of two
whitespace-separated columns per alias. The first column is the real name
of the cell, and the second column is the alias that should be created.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following F<CellAlias> file:

   openafs.org openafs
   uncc.edu uncc

results in the following symbolic links:

   /afs/.openafs  ->  /afs/.openafs.org
   /afs/openafs   ->  /afs/openafs.org
   /afs/.uncc     ->  /afs/.uncc.edu
   /afs/uncc      ->  /afs/uncc.edu

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_newalias(1)>,
L<fs_listaliases(1)>,
L<afsd(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2007 Jason Edgecombe <jason@rampaginggeek.com>

This documentation is covered by the BSD License as written in the
doc/LICENSE file. This man page was written by Jason Edgecombe for
OpenAFS.
