=head1 NAME

FileLog - Traces File Server operations

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The FileLog file records a trace of File Server
(B<fileserver> process) operations on the local machine and describes
any error conditions it encounters.

If the FileLog file does not already exist in the
B</usr/afs/logs> directory when the File Server starts, the server
process creates it and writes initial start-up messages to it. If there
is an existing file, the File Server renames it to
B<FileLog.old>, overwriting the existing
B<FileLog.old> file if it exists.

The file is in ASCII format. Administrators listed in the
B</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file can use the B<bos getlog>
command to display its contents. Alternatively, log onto the file
server machine and use a text editor or a file display command such as the
UNIX B<cat> command. By default, the mode bits on the
B<FileLog> file grant the required B<r> (B<read>)
permission to all users.

The File Server records operations only as it completes them, and cannot
recover from failures by reviewing the file. The log contents are
useful for administrative evaluation of process failures and other
problems.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<UserList(1)>,
L<bos_getlog(1)>,
L<fileserver(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
