=head1 NAME

kaserver.DB0 and kaserver.DBSYS1 - Contain the Authentication Database and associated log

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The kaserver.DB0 file contains the Authentication
Database, which records server encryption keys and an encrypted form of all
user passwords. The Authentication Server (B<kaserver> process)
uses the information in the database to enable secured communications between
AFS server and client processes.

The kaserver.DBSYS1 file is a log file in which the
Authentication Server logs each database operation before performing
it. When an operation is interrupted, the Authentication Server replays
the log to complete the operation.

Both files are in binary format and reside in the /usr/afs/db
directory on each of the cell's database server machines. When the
Authentication Server starts or restarts on a given machine, it establishes a
connection with its peers and verifies that its copy of the database matches
the copy on the other database server machines. If not, the
Authentication Servers call on AFS's distributed database technology,
Ubik, to distribute to all of the machines the copy of the database with the
highest version number.

Always use the commands in the kas suite to administer the
Authentication Database. It is advisable to create an archive copy of
the database on a regular basis, using a tool such as the UNIX B<tar>
command.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<kadb_check(1)>,
L<kas(1)>,
L<kaserver(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
