=head1 NAME

kaserverauxdb - Records failed authentication attempts

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The file kaserverauxdb records failed authentication attempts
for the local Authentication Server. The server creates it
automatically in the B</usr/afs/local> directory by default; use
the B<-localfiles> argument to the B<kaserver> command to
specify an alternate directory.

The kaserverauxdb file is an internal database used by the
Authentication Server to prevent access by users who have exceeded the limit
on failed authentication attempts defined in their Authentication Database
entry. The Authentication Server refuses further attempts to
authenticate to an account listed in the database until either an AFS system
administrator issues the B<kas unlock> command to unlock the account,
or the timeout period defined in the user's Authentication Database entry
passes.

The kaserverauxdb file is in binary format, so its contents are
not directly accessible. However, the output from the B<kas
examine> command reports an account's maximum number of failed
attempts, the lockout time, and whether the account is currently
locked.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<kaserver.DB0 and kaserver.DBSYS1(1)>

L<kas_examine(1)>,
L<kas_unlock(1)>,
L<kaserver(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
