=head1 NAME

NoAuth - Disables authorization checking

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The F<NoAuth> file, if present in a server machine's F</usr/afs/local>
directory, indicates to the AFS server processes running on the machine
that it is not necessary to perform authorization checking. They perform
any action for any user who logs into the machine's local file system or
issues a remote command that affects the machine's AFS server functioning,
such as commands from the AFS command suites. Because failure to check
authorization exposes the machine's AFS server functionality to attack,
this is almost never desirable.
In older releases of AFS, there were two
circumstances in which this file might be present:

=over 4

=item *

During installation of the machine, as instructed in the I<IBM AFS Quick
Beginnings>.
There is an alternate way to install a cell which uses pt_util(8)
to create the initial protection database, which does not require
the use of noauth mode.

=item *

During correction of a server encryption key emergency, as discussed in
the I<IBM AFS Administration Guide>.
That procedure is obselete; see afs.keytab(5) for better information.
If you have root or any other administrative access to the server, including
physical access, you do not need this procedure.

=back

In all other circumstances, the absence of the file means that the AFS
server processes perform authorization checking, verifying that the issuer
of a command has the required privilege.

Create the file in one of the following ways:

=over 4

=item *

By issuing the bosserver initialization command with the B<-noauth> flag,
if the Basic OverSeer (BOS) Server is not already running.

=item *

By issuing the B<bos setauth> command with off as the value for the
B<-authrequired> argument, if the BOS Server is already running.

=back

To remove the file, issue the B<bos setauth> command with C<on> as the
value for the B<-authrequired> argument.

The file's contents, if any, are ignored; an empty (zero-length) file is
effective.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<bos_setauth(8)>,
L<bosserver(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
