=head1 NAME

prdb.DB0 and prdb.DBSYS1 - Contain the Protection Database and associated log

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The prdb.DB0 file contains the Protection Database, which
maps AFS user, machine, and group names to their respective IDs (AFS UIDs and
GIDs) and tracks group memberships. The Protection Server
(B<ptserver> process) uses the information in the database to help the
File Server grant data access to authorized users.

The prdb.DBSYS1 file is a log file in which the
Protection Server logs each database operation before performing it.
When an operation is interrupted, the Protection Server replays the log to
complete the operation.

Both files are in binary format and reside in the /usr/afs/db
directory on each of the cell's database server machines. When the
Protection Server starts or restarts on a given machine, it establishes a
connection with its peers and verifies that its copy of the database matches
the copy on the other database server machines. If not, the Protection
Servers call on AFS's distributed database technology, Ubik, to
distribute to all of the machines the copy of the database with the highest
version number.

Always use the commands in the pts suite to administer the
Protection Database. It is advisable to create an archive copy of the
database on a regular basis, using a tool such as the UNIX B<tar>
command.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<prdb_check(1)>,
L<pts(1)>,
L<ptserver(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
