=head1 NAME

PtLog - Traces Protection Server operations

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The F<PtLog> file records a trace of Protection Server (B<ptserver> process)
operations on the local machine and describes any error conditions it
encounters.

If the F<PtLog> file does not already exist in the F</usr/afs/logs> directory
when the Protection Server starts, the server process creates it and writes
initial start-up messages to it.

The file is in ASCII format. Administrators listed in the
F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file can use the B<bos getlog> command to display
its contents. Alternatively, log onto the server machine and use a text
editor or a file display command such as the UNIX B<cat> command. By
default, the mode bits on the F<PtLog> file grant the required C<r> (read)
permission to all users.

The Protection Server records operations only as it completes them, and cannot
recover from failures by reviewing the file. The log contents are useful
for administrative evaluation of process failures and other problems.

The Protection Server can record messages at several levels of detail. By default, it
records only very rudimentary messages.  Specify the Protection Server B<-d> <I<debug level>> command
line option to set the initial logging level when the Protection Server is started.

To increase the level of detail logged by a running Protection Server, issue the following
command while logged onto the database server machine as the local superuser
C<root>.

   # kill -TSTP <ptserver_pid>

where <ptserver_pid> is the process ID of the vlserver process, as
reported in the output from the standard UNIX B<ps> command. To increase
to the second and third levels of detail, repeat the command.

To disable logging, issue the following command.

   # kill -HUP <ptserver_pid>

To decrease the level of logging, first completely disable it and then
issue the C<kill -TSTP> command as many times as necessary to reach the
desired level.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<UserList(5)>,
L<bos_getlog(8)>,
L<ptserver(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
