=head1 NAME

sysid - Lists file server machine interface addresses registered in VLDB

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The sysid file records the network interface addresses that the
File Server (B<fileserver> process) registers in the Volume Location
Database (VLDB) for the local file server machine.

Each time the File Server restarts, it builds a list of interfaces on the
local machine by reading the B</usr/afs/local/NetInfo> file, if it
exists. If the file does not exist, the File Server uses the list of
network interfaces configured with the operating system. It then
removes from the list any addresses that appear in the
B</usr/afs/local/NetRestrict> file, if it exists. The File
Server records the resulting list in the binary-format B<sysid> file
and registers the interfaces in the VLDB.

When the Cache Manager requests volume location information, the Volume
Location (VL) Server provides all of the interfaces registered for each server
machine that houses the volume. This enables the Cache Manager to make
use of multiple addresses when accessing AFS data stored on a multihomed file
server machine.

=head1 CAVEATS

The sysid file is unique to each file server machine, and must
not be copied from one machine to another. If it is a common practice
in the cell to copy the contents of the B</usr/afs/local> directory
from an existing file server machine to a newly installed one, be sure to
remove the B<sysid> file from the new machine before starting the
B<fs> trio of processes, which includes the B<fileserver>
process.

Some versions of AFS limit how many of a file server machine's
interface addresses that can be registered. Consult the I<IBM AFS
Release Notes>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<NetInfo (server version)(1)>

L<NetRestrict (server version)(1)>

L<vldb.DB0 and vldb.DBSYS1(1)>

L<fileserver(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
