=head1 NAME

UserList - Defines privileged administrators

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The UserList file lists the AFS usernames of the system
administrators authorized to issue privileged B<bos>, B<vos>,
and B<backup> commands that affect the local server machine or the
volumes housed on it. It must reside in the B</usr/afs/etc>
directory on every server machine.

Although the UserList file is in ASCII format, do not use a text
editor to alter it. Instead always use the appropriate commands from
the B<bos> command suite: 

=over 4

=item *

The bos adduser command to add a user to the file


=item *

The bos listusers command to display the contents of the file


=item *

The bos removeuser command to remove a user from the file


=back

Although it is theoretically possible to list different administrators in
the B<UserList> files on different server machines, doing so can cause
unanticipated authorization failures and is not recommended. In cells
that run the United States edition of AFS and use the Update Server to
distribute the contents of the B</usr/afs/etc> directory, it is
customary to edit only the copy of the file stored on the system control
machine. In cells that run the international version of AFS, edit the
file on each server machine individually.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<bos_adduser(1)>,
L<bos_listusers(1)>,
L<bos_removeuser(1)>,
L<upclient(1)>,
L<upserver(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
