=head1 NAME

uss Bulk Input File - Provides instructions for the uss bulk command

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The uss bulk input file lists instructions for the
B<uss> command interpreter to execute when running the B<uss
bulk> command. If the file includes B<add> instructions
that reference a B<uss> template file, then the template file must
also exist.

Summary of Bulk Input File Instructions

The bulk input file can include the following instructions, each on its own
line. A more detailed description of each instruction's syntax
follows this list.

=over 4

=item add

Creates a user account. Equivalent to the uss add
command.

=item delete

Deletes a user account. Equivalent to the uss delete
command.

=item delvolume

Removes the volume and VLDB entry for each account referenced by a
B<delete> instruction that follows this instruction in the bulk input
file.

=item exec

Executes a command.

=item savevolume

Preserves the volume and VLDB entry for each account referenced by a
B<delete> instruction that follows this instruction in the bulk input
file.

=back

The add Instruction for Creating an Account
L<(1)>
L<(1)>

The add instruction creates a user account. Each instance
in the bulk input file is equivalent in effect to a B<uss add> command
issued on the command line. The order of the instruction's fields
matches the order of arguments to the B<uss add> command, although
some arguments do not have a corresponding field. Like the B<uss
add> command's arguments, many of the fields correspond to (provide
a value for) a variable in the B<uss> template file, as indicated in
the following description of each field.

The instruction's syntax is as follows. It appears on multiple
lines here only for the sake of legibility--each B<add>
instruction must appear on a single line in the bulk input file.

   add I<username>[:I<full_name>][:I<initial_password>][:I<password_expires>]
       [:I<file_server>][:I<partition>][:I<mount_point>][:I<uid>][:I<var1>][:I<var2>]
       [:I<var3>][:I<var4>][:I<var5>][:I<var6>][:I<var7>][:I<var8>][:I<var9>][:]

To omit a value for a field (presumably because it is optional or the
template specifies a constant value for it), type nothing between the two
colons that surround it. After the last argument provided, end the line
with either a colon and carriage return, or a carriage return alone.

The meaning of, and acceptable values for, each field are as
follows.

=over 4

=item I<username
>

Names the user's Authentication Database and Protection Database
entries. It can include up to eight alphanumeric characters, but not
the B<:> (colon), B<.> (period), or B<@>
(at-sign) characters. Because it becomes the username (the name under
which a user logs in), it is best not to include shell metacharacters and to
obey the restrictions that many operating systems impose on usernames
(usually, to contain no more than eight lowercase letters).

Corresponding argument to the uss add command:
B<-user>. Corresponding variable in the template file:
$USER.

=item I<full_name
>

Specifies the user's full name. Do not surround it with double
quotes (""), even if it contains spaces. If not provided, it defaults
to the username in the I<username> field. 

Corresponding argument to the uss add command:
B<-realname>. Corresponding variable in the template
file: $NAME. Many operating systems include a field for the full
name in a user's entry in the local password file (B</etc/passwd>
or equivalent), and this variable can be used to pass a value to be used in
that field.

=item I<initial_password
>

Specifies the user's initial password. Although the AFS
commands that handle passwords accept strings of virtually unlimited length,
it is best to use a password of eight characters or less, which is the maximum
length that many applications and utilities accept. If not provided,
this argument defaults to the string B<changeme>.

Corresponding argument to the uss add command:
B<-pass>. Corresponding variable in the template file:
none.

=item I<password_expires
>

Sets the number of days after a user's password is changed that it
remains valid. Provide an integer from the range B<1> through
B<254> to specify the number of days until expiration, or the value
B<0> to indicate that the password never expires (the default).

When the password becomes invalid (expires), the user is unable to
authenticate, but has 30 more days in which to issue the B<kpasswd>
command to change the password (after that, only an administrator can change
it).

Corresponding argument to the uss add command:
B<-pwexpires>. Corresponding variable in the template
file: $PWEXPIRES.

=item I<file_server
>

Names the file server machine on which to create the new user's
volume. It is best to provide a fully-qualified hostname (for example,
B<fs1.abc.com>), but an abbreviated form is acceptable
provided that the cell's naming service is available to resolve it at the
time the volume is created.

Corresponding argument to the uss add command:
B<-server>. Corresponding variable in the template file:
$SERVER.

=item I<partition
>

Specifies the partition on which to create the user's volume; it
must reside on the file server machine named in the I<file_server>
field. Identify the partition by its complete name (for example,
B</vicepa>, or use one of the following abbreviations: 

   B</vicepa>     =     B<vicepa>      =      B<a>      =      0
   B</vicepb>     =     B<vicepb>      =      B<b>      =      1

After /vicepz (for which the index is 25) comes 

   B</vicepaa>    =     B<vicepaa>     =      B<aa>     =      26
   B</vicepab>    =     B<vicepab>     =      B<ab>     =      27

and so on through 

   B</vicepiv>    =     B<vicepiv>     =      B<iv>     =      255

Corresponding argument to the uss add command:
B<-partition>. Corresponding variable in template:
$PART.

=item I<mount_point
>

Specifies the complete pathname for the user's home directory.

Corresponding argument to the uss add command:
B<-mount>.

Corresponding variable in template: $MTPT, but in the template
file's B<V> instruction only. Occurrences of the $MTPT
variable in template instructions that follow the B<V> instruction
take their value from the B<V> instruction's I<mount_point>
field. Thus the value of this command line argument becomes the value
for the $MTPT variable in instructions that follow the B<V>
instruction only if the string $MTPT appears alone in the B<V>
instruction's I<mount_point> field.

=item I<uid
>

Specifies a positive integer other than 0 (zero) to assign as
the user's AFS UID. If this argument is omitted, the Protection
Server assigns an AFS UID that is one greater than the current value of the
C<max> C<user> C<id> counter (use the B<pts
listmax> command to display the counter). If including this
argument, first use the B<pts examine> command to verify that no
existing account already has the desired AFS UID; if one does, the
account-creation process terminates with an error.

Corresponding argument to the uss add command:
B<-uid>. Corresponding variable in template: $UID.

=item I<var1 through I<var9>
>

Specifies values for each of the number variables $1 through $9 that can
appear in the template file. The number variables allow the
administrator to provide values for variables other than the set defined by
the B<uss> command suite.

Corresponding argument to the uss add command:
B<-var>. Corresponding variables in template: $1 through
$9.

If providing a value in any of the fields, then in every field that
precedes it either provide an actual value or indicate an empty field by
putting nothing between two colons. It is acceptable, but not
necessary, to indicate empty fields by putting colons after the last field
that contains an actual value.

=back

The delete Instruction for Deleting an Account
L<(1)>
L<(1)>

The delete instruction deletes a user account from the
system. Each instance in the bulk input file is equivalent in effect to
a B<uss delete> command issued on the command line. The order
of the instruction's fields matches the order of arguments to the
B<uss delete> command:

   delete I<username>:I<mount_point_path>[:{ savevolume | delvolume }][:]

where

=over 4

=item I<username
>

Names the entry to delete from the Protection and Authentication
Databases.

=item I<mount_point_path
>

Specifies the complete pathname to the user's home directory, which
is deleted from the filespace. By default, the volume mounted there is
also deleted from the file server machine where it resides, as is its record
from the Volume Location Database (VLDB). To prevent deletion, include
the B<savevolume> string in the instruction's third field, or
precede this B<delete> instruction with a B<savevolume>
instruction. Partial pathnames are interpreted relative to the current
working directory.

=item savevolume

Retains the volume on its file server machine, and the corresponding entry
in the VLDB. Provide this value or B<delvolume> in the third
field, or omit both values to treat the volume according to the prevailing
default, which is set by a preceding B<savevolume> or
B<delvolume> instruction in the bulk input file.

=item delvolume

Removes the volume from its file server machine, and the corresponding
entry from the VLDB. Provide this value or B<savevolume> in the
third field, or omit both values to treat the volume according to the
prevailing default, which is set by a preceding B<savevolume> or
B<delvolume> instruction in the bulk input file.

=back

After the last argument provided, end the line with either a colon and
carriage return or a carriage return alone.

The exec Instruction for Executing a Command

The exec instruction executes the specified command, which can
be a UNIX shell script or command, a program, or an AFS command. The
B<uss> command interpreter must have the necessary privileges in AFS
and the local file system; it assumes the AFS and local identities of the
issuer of the B<uss bulk> command.

The instruction's syntax is as follows:

   exec I<command>

The delvolume and savevolume Instructions for Setting the Default
Treatment of Volumes
L<(1)>
L<(1)>
L<(1)>
L<(1)>

The B<savevolume> and delvolume instructions determine
the default treatment of volumes referenced by the B<delete>
instructions that follow them in the bulk input file. Their syntax is
as follows:

   savevolume
   delvolume

The savevolume instruction prevents the removal of the volume
and VLDB entry for all B<delete> instruction that follow it in the
bulk input file, and the B<delvolume> instruction removes the volume
and VLDB entry for all subsequent B<delete> instructions.
Either setting persists until its opposite appears in the file, or until the
end of the bulk file.

If neither line appears in the bulk input file, the default is to remove
the volume and the VLDB entry; B<delete> instructions that appear
before the first B<savevolume> instruction are also subject to this
default. If a B<delete> instruction's third field
specifies either B<savevolume> or B<delvolume>, that setting
overrides the default.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example add instruction creates an
authentication-only account. The user's initial password is
B<changeme> (the default).

   add anderson

The following example add instructions refer to the indicated
B<V> instruction in a template file (which must appear on a single
line in the template file). 

   add smith:John Smith:::fs1:a:::::marketing 
   add jones:Pat Jones:::fs3:c:::::finance
   V user.$USER $SERVER.abc.com /vicep$PART 2000 \
       /afs/abc.com/usr/$3/$USER $UID $USER all

The first add instruction creates an account called
B<smith> in the Protection and Authentication Databases, with an
initial password B<changeme> and a value for $UID provided by the
Protection Server. The volume B<user.smith> resides on
partition B</vicepa> of file server machine
B<fs1.abc.com> and is mounted at
B</afs/abc.com/usr/marketing/smith>. He owns his home
directory and has all access permissions on its root directory's access
control list (ACL). The account for B<jones> is similar, except
that the volume resides on partition B</vicepc> of file server machine
B<fs3.abc.com> and is mounted at
B</afs/abc.com/usr/finance/jones>.

Notice that the fields corresponding to the volume mount point, UID, $1
variable, and $2 variable are empty (between C<a> and
C<marketing> on the first example line), because their corresponding
variables do not appear in the template file. The initial password
field is also empty.

The following add instructions are equivalent in effect to the
preceding example, but explicitly indicate empty fields for all of the number
variables that don't have a value:

   add smith:John Smith:::fs1:a:::::marketing::::::
   add jones:Pat Jones:::fs3:c:::::finance::::::

The following example shows a complete bulk file containing a set of
B<delete> instructions combined with a B<savevolume>
instruction. Because the B<delete> instruction for users
B<smith>, B<pat>, and B<rogers> appear before the
B<savevolume> instruction and the third field is blank in each, the
corresponding home volumes are removed. The volume for user
B<terry> is retained because the default established by the
B<savevolume> instruction applies to it, but user
B<johnson>'s volume is removed because the third field of her
B<delete> instruction overrides the current default.

   delete smith:/afs/abc.com/usr/smith
   delete pat:/afs/abc.com/usr/pat
   delete rogers:/afs/abc.com/usr/rogers
   savevolume
   delete terry:/afs/abc.com/usr/terry
   delete johnson:/afs/abc.com/usr/johnson:delvolume

The following example exec instruction appears between sets of
B<add> and B<delete> instructions in a bulk input file.
A message appears in the command shell where the B<uss bulk> command
is issued, to indicate when the additions are finished and the deletions
beginning.

   exec echo "Additions completed; beginning deletions..."

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<uss Template File(1)>

L<uss_add(1)>,
L<uss_bulk(1)>,
L<uss_delete(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
