=head1 NAME

vldb.DB0 and vldb.DBSYS1 - Contain the Volume Location Database and associated log

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The file vldb.DB0 contains the Volume Location Database
(VLDB), which tracks the location of all AFS volumes stored on file server
machines in the cell. The Volume Location (VL) Server
(B<vlserver> process) provides information from the database to Cache
Managers when they need to access AFS data.

The file vldb.DBSYS1 is a log file in which the VL Server
logs each database operation before performing it. When an operation is
interrupted, the VL Server replays the log to complete the operation.

Both files are in binary format and reside in the /usr/afs/db
directory on each of the cell's database server machines. When the
VL Server starts or restarts on a given machine, it establishes a connection
with its peers and verifies that its copy of the database matches the copy on
the other database server machines. If not, the VL Servers call on
AFS's distributed database technology, Ubik, to distribute to all of the
machines the copy of the database with the highest version number.

Always use the commands in the vos suite to administer the
VLDB. It is advisable to create an archive copy of the database on a
regular basis, using a tool such as the UNIX B<tar> command.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<vldb_check(1)>,
L<vlserver(1)>,
L<vos(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
