=head1 NAME

VLLog - Traces Volume Location Server operations

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The VLLog file records a trace of Volume Location (VL) Server
(B<vlserver> process) operations on the local machine and describes
any error conditions it encounters.

If the VLLog file does not already exist in the
B</usr/afs/logs> directory when the VL Server starts, the server
process creates it and writes initial start-up messages to it. If there
is an existing file, the VL Server renames it to B<VLLog.old>,
overwriting the existing B<VLLog.old> file if it exists.

The file is in ASCII format. Administrators listed in the
B</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file can use the B<bos getlog>
command to display its contents. Alternatively, log onto the server
machine and use a text editor or a file display command such as the UNIX
B<cat> command. By default, the mode bits on the
B<VLLog> file grant the required B<r> (B<read>)
permission to all users.

The VL Server records operations only as it completes them, and cannot
recover from failures by reviewing the file. The log contents are
useful for administrative evaluation of process failures and other
problems.

The VL Server can record messages at three levels of detail. By
default, it records only very rudimentary messages. To increase logging
to the first level of detail, issue the following command while logged onto
the database server machine as the local superuser B<root>.

   # kill -TSTP I<vlserver_pid>

where I<vlserver_pid> is the process ID of the vlserver
process, as reported in the output from the standard UNIX B<ps>
command. To increase to the second and third levels of detail, repeat
the command.

To disable logging, issue the following command.


   # kill -HUP I<vlserver_pid>
   

To decrease the level of logging, first completely disable it and then
issue the B<kill -TSTP> command as many times as necessary to reach
the desired level.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<UserList(1)>,
L<bos_getlog(1)>,
L<vlserver(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
