=head1 NAME

VolserLog - Traces Volume Server operations

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The VolserLog file records a trace of Volume Server
(B<volserver> process) operations on the local machine and describes
any error conditions it encounters.

If the VolserLog file does not already exist in the
B</usr/afs/logs> directory when the Volume Server starts, the server
process creates it and writes initial start-up messages to it. If there
is an existing file, the Volume Server renames it to
B<VolserLog.old>, overwriting the existing
B<VolserLog.old> file if it exists.

The file is in ASCII format. Administrators listed in the
B</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file can use the B<bos getlog>
command to display its contents. Alternatively, log onto the file
server machine and use a text editor or a file display command such as the
UNIX B<cat> command. By default, the mode bits on the
B<VolserLog> file grant the required B<r> (B<read>)
permission to all users.

The Volume Server records operations only as it completes them, and so
cannot recover from failures by reviewing the file. The log contents
are useful for administrative evaluation of process failures and other
problems.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<UserList(1)>,
L<bos_getlog(1)>,
L<volserver(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
