{\rtf1\ansi\deff0\deftab720{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss MS Sans Serif;}{\f1\froman\fcharset2 Symbol;}{\f2\froman Times New Roman;}{\f3\froman Times New Roman;}}
{\colortbl\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue255;}
\deflang1033\pard\qc\plain\f2\fs28\b AFS Client for Windows 95/98 (\plain\f2\fs20\b Version 2.0.0.0 - 04/20/01 12:18 PM\plain\f2\fs28\b )
\par \pard\plain\f2\fs28 
\par \plain\f2\fs20 Welcome to the Open AFS Client for Windows 95/98.
\par 
\par This client will allow you to access files on sites stored all over the Internet as though the files were residing on your local machine.  You can store your own files on the Internet to share with others, and can limit access to your files to specific users or groups of users.  You can browse through the different AFS sites (known as \plain\f2\fs20\i cells\plain\f2\fs20 ) from a single file tree and use standard Windows programs such as Explorer to copy and manipulate files.  You can open files stored on the Internet directly from Windows applications.
\par 
\par One drive letter will be created on your machine by default - Z:.  The Z: drive will be the root of the AFS tree, allowing you to browse all sites that have AFS servers available.
\par 
\par This is a native Windows 9x client; a gateway machine is not required.
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs24\b System Requirements
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20 IBM compatible PC running Windows 95 (see below) or 98
\par 16 MB RAM
\par 20 MB free disk space
\par Client for Microsoft Networks must be installed
\par TCP/IP protocol stack must be installed
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs24\b Getting Started
\par \plain\f2\fs20 
\par To use the client, you will need to perform the following tasks after installation and reboot:
\par 
\par 1) Boot up your machine and log in to Windows.  (Note: if you bypass the login by hitting "Cancel" at the login screen, Windows networking will not work and you will not be able to mount your drives.)
\par 2) Connect to the Internet or your company's intranet.  (Note: If you are using the client in a firewalled intranet environment with private AFS cells, you will probably need a CellServDB file specific to your 
\par company's environment.  Ask your system administrator.)
\par 3) Check your system time, timezone, and date settings and make sure they are synchronized with the AFS server. 
\par 4) Start the AFS Client by double-clicking on the icon on the desktop or Start Menu.
\par 5) A box will appear asking for your userid and password.  Type them in and press "Connect".  This will
\par authenticate you to the AFS cell you specified at installation.  (Note: You cannot use the GUI interface to authenticate to other cells at present.  This will be added later.  You can still authenticate to other cells using the "klog" command; see "Command Line Tools" below.)  Use the "Save Password" checkbox to enable the AFS Client to save your password in the registry for use next time you run the AFS Client.  (The password will be saved encrypted in the registry if you are running Windows 98 or have installed Internet Explorer version 4.0 or later.  Otherwise, it will be saved in clear text.  We recommend you do not use the save password feature if encryption is not available on your system.)
\par 6) Now a Windows Explorer will start to allow you to browse your new Z: drive.  Z: will be the root of the AFS tree.
\par 7) By checking "Advanced Options",  you can add and change your drive letter assignments.  There is one  share assigned by default, "all".  (Note: the "all" share cannot be removed.)  New shares must be assigned a unique share name and an AFS path.  You can mount and unmount your AFS drives by checking or unchecking the box next to each drive letter.  You can also set whether a drive will be automatically mounted at startup by highlighting the drive and clicking "Change".
\par 8) You can kill or minimize the AFS client dialog window.  Double click the icon in the system tray to restore it.
\par 9) When you are ready to shut down the AFS client, bring up the AFS client dialog and click the "Disconnect" button.  This will terminate the AFS daemon.  Then click "Exit" to quit.
\par 
\par Complete documentation for the AFS client is available at:  
\par http://www.openafs.org/dl/openafs/1.0.2/afs-3.6-doc.tar.gz
\par  
\par \plain\f2\fs24\b Explorer Shell Extension
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20 You can right click on items within an AFS tree to bring up an "AFS" menu item.  Under this menu are various operations you can execute on a file or directory.  The most useful item is "Access Control Lists" which allows you to view and edit the permissions of a particular directory. 
\par 
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs24\b Command Line Tools
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs20 The following command line tools are available in the install directory.  See the full documentation at the above URL for complete information on these commands:
\par 
\par klog.exe:         \tab Authenticate a user to a cell, e.g. "klog joeuser@mycell.com" \tab 
\par unlog.exe:       \tab Unauthenticate to a cell\tab 
\par tokens.exe\tab List which tokens  you have (cells you have authenticated to) and their expiration times\tab 
\par kpasswd.exe\tab Change your password for the specified cell\tab 
\par symlink.exe:    \tab Create a symbolic link , e.g. "symlink make dest src" makes a link called "dest" pointing to file  "src"\tab 
\par fs.exe:              \tab This command is used for a number of file server functions.  Type "fs help" for a list, and then "fs help function" to get detailed help for that function.  See the documentation for more info.\tab 
\par fs help\tab list functions\tab 
\par fs listacl <directory>\tab show directory access control list\tab 
\par fs setacl <diretory> <acl>\tab set directory access control list\tab 
\par fs listquota <directory>\tab show directory disk quota\tab 
\par fs flushvolume <directory>\tab flush cached data from volume\tab 
\par pts.exe\tab This command is used for user administration functions.  See the documentation for more info.   (Note: this command currently does not work in Windows 95.)\tab 
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs24\b Known Issues
\par 
\par \pard\li720\fi-360\plain\f2\fs20 1) The Microsoft Visual Studio linker "link.exe" fails when writing to a file stored in AFS.  It freezes the system for a minute or so and then times out.  This problem may exist in other programs as well.
\par 2) Occasionally the U: and Z: drive letters are not mapped automatically when the client is started.  If this happens, you can map them manually by entering the commands:
\par \pard\li1440\fi-360\tx1440\plain\f2\fs20 0net use u: \\\\mymachine-afs\\home
\par 1net use z: \\\\mymachine-afs\\all
\par 2where "mymachine" is the Windows networking name of your machine.
\par \pard\li720\fi-360\plain\f2\fs20 3) The Windows file system does not understand symbolic links, so links to directories just look like normal directories.  This can lead to problems when trying to recursively copy a directory, since following cyclical links can lead to infinite regress.
\par 4) The Office 2000 install program seems to take a very long time to install Office 2000 to AFS.
\par 5) You must log in to Windows for Windows networking to work correctly.  If you bypass the login, AFS will time out trying to start the AFS client console, with the error "Connect can't continue: Network error adding Z:all."
\par 6) Under certain configurations the AFS Client Console will report a cache error.   This will prevent the AFS Client from initializing.  
\par 7) Infrequently Windows will incorrectly notify the AFS Control Panel that there are open files.  If this prevents AFS from disconnecting, it will require you to reboot.
\par \pard\plain\f2\fs20 
\par 
\par \plain\f2\fs24\b Legalities
\par 
\par \pard\li720\ri810\plain\f2\fs24\i Copyright 2000, International Business Machines Corporation and others. All Rights Reserved. This software has been released under the terms of the IBM Public License.  For details, see the LICENSE file in the top-level source directory or online at  \plain\f2\fs24\cf1\i\ul http://www.openafs.org/dl/license10.html\plain\f2\fs24\b 
\par \pard\plain\f2\fs24\b 
\par \plain\f2\fs20 This program was compiled using the DJGPP compiler and includes object code copyrighted by DJ Delorie.  The compiler and libraries are available at http://www.delorie.com.
\par 
\par This program includes software developed by the University of California, Berkeley, and its contributors.
\par 
\par This program has been distributed with, and uses the services of, the sock.vxd and mmap.vxd drivers written for the Coda project at http://www.coda.cs.cmu.edu and licensed under the GNU General Public License.  Source code for these drivers is available at the above web site.
\par 
\par 
\par }
 