=head1 NAME

backup listhosts - Lists Tape Coordinators registered in the Backup Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<backup listhosts> [B<-localauth>] [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] [B<-help>]

B<backup listh> [B<-l>] [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<backup listhosts> command displays the Backup Database record of the
port offset numbers defined for Tape Coordinator machines. A Tape
Coordinator must have an entry in the list to be available for backup
operations.

The existence of an entry does not necessarily indicate that the Tape
Coordinator process (B<butc>) is currently running at that port offset. To
check, issue the B<backup status> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<backup> command interpreter presents
it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> argument. For
more details, see L<backup(8)>.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<backup(8)>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

After a C<Tape hosts:> header, the output reports two things about each
Tape Coordinator currently defined in the Backup Database:

=over 4

=item *

The hostname of the machine housing the Tape Coordinator. The format of
this name depends on the hostname format used when the B<backup addhost>
command was issued.

=item *

The Tape Coordinator's port offset number.

=back

The Tape Coordinators appear in the order in which they were added to the
Backup Database.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows the result of the command in the ABC
Corporation cell:

   % backup listhosts
   Tape hosts:
       Host backup1.abc.com, port offset 0
       Host backup1.abc.com, port offset 1
       Host backup3.abc.com, port offset 4
       Host backup2.abc.com, port offset 3

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on every
machine where the Backup Server is running, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser C<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(8)>,
L<backup_addhost(8)>,
L<backup_delhost(8)>,
L<backup_status(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
