=head1 NAME

backup addvolset - Creates a new (empty) volume set

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<backup addvolset> B<-name> <I<volume set name>> [B<-temporary>]
    [B<-localauth>] [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] [B<-help>]

B<backup addvols> B<-n> <I<volume set name>> [B<-t>] [B<-l>]
    [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<backup addvolset> command creates a new volume set, by default
adding it to the Backup Database. It is best that the volume set's name
indicate the volume set's contents; for example, define the volume entries
in the C<user> volume set to match all user volumes. The volume set name
must be unique within the Backup Database of the local cell.

After issuing this command, issue the B<backup addvolentry> command to
define the volume entries in the volume set.

Sometimes it is convenient to create volume sets without recording them
permanently in the Backup Database, for example when using the B<backup
volsetrestore> command to restore a group of volumes that were not
necessarily backed up together. To create a I<temporary> volume set,
include the B<-temporary> flag. A temporary volume set exists only during
the lifetime of the current interactive session, so the flag is effective
only when used during an interactive session (opened by issuing the
B<backup interactive> command). If it is included when the command is
issued at the regular command shell prompt, the command appears to
succeed, but the volume set is not created. As noted, a temporary volume
set ceases to exist when the current interactive session ends, or use the
B<backup delvolset> command to delete it before that.

One advantage of temporary volume sets is that the B<backup addvolset>
command, and any B<backup addvolentry> commands subsequently used to add
volume entries to it, complete more quickly than for regular volume sets,
because no records are created in the Backup Database.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-name> <I<volume set name>>

Names the new volume set. The name can include up to 31 of any character
other than the period. Avoid other metacharacters as well.

=item B<-temporary>

Creates a volume set that exists only within the context of the current
interactive session. It is not added to the Backup Database.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<backup> command interpreter presents
it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and VL Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> argument. For
more details, see L<backup(8)>.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<backup(8)>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command creates a volume set called C<sys>:

   % backup addvolset sys

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on every
machine where the Backup Server is running, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser C<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<backup(8)>,
L<backup_addvolentry(8)>,
L<backup_delvolentry(8)>,
L<backup_delvolset(8)>,
L<backup_listvolsets(8)>,
L<backup_volsetrestore(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
