=head1 NAME

fstrace apropos - Displays each help entry containing a keyword string

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<fstrace apropos> B<-topic> <I<help string>> [B<-help>]

B<fstrace ap> B<-t> <I<help string>> [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fstrace apropos> command displays the first line of the online help
entry for any B<fstrace> command that contains in its name or short
description the string specified with the B<-topic> argument.

To display a command's complete syntax, use the B<fstrace help> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-topic> <I<help string>>

Specifies the keyword string to match, in lowercase letters only.  If the
string is more than a single word, surround it with double quotes (C<"">)
or other delimiters.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The first line of a command's online help entry names it and briefly
describes its function. This command displays the first line for any
B<fstrace> command where the string specified with the B<-topic> argument
is part of the command name or first line.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command lists all B<fstrace> commands that include the word
C<set> in their names or short descriptions:

   % fstrace apropos set
   clear: clear logs by logname or by event set
   lsset: list available event sets
   setlog: set the size of a log
   setset: set state of event sets

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fstrace(8)>,
L<fstrace_help(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
