=head1 NAME

kas create - Creates an entry in the Authentication Database

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<kas create> B<-name> <I<name of user>>
    [B<-initial_password> <I<initial password>>]
    [B<-admin_username> <I<admin principal to use for authentication>>]
    [B<-password_for_admin> <I<admin password>>] [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]
    [B<-servers> <I<explicit list of authentication servers>>+]
    [B<-noauth>] [B<-help>]

B<kas c> B<-na> <I<name of user>> [B<-i> <I<initial password>>]
    [B<-a> <I<admin principal to use for authentication>>]
    [B<-p> <I<admin password>>] [B<-c> <I<cell name>>]
    [B<-s> <I<explicit list of authentication servers>>+] [B<-no>] [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<kas create> command creates an entry in the Authentication Database
for the user named by the B<-name> argument.

To avoid having the account's initial password echo visibly at the shell
prompt, omit the B<-initial_password> argument; the command interpreter
prompts for the password and does not echo it visibly.  Whether or not
B<-initial_password> is omitted, the Authentication Server converts the
password into a form suitable for use as an encryption key, and records it
in the entry's key field.

To alter settings in an Authentication Database entry, use the B<kas
setfields> command. To examine an entry, use the B<kas examine>
command. To list every entry in the database, use the B<kas list> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-name> <I<name of user>>

Names the new Authentication Database entry. Because it is the name under
which the user logs in, it must obey the restrictions that many operating
systems impose on user names (usually, to contain no more than eight
lowercase letters).

=item B<-initial_password> <I<initial password>>

Sets the user's password; provide a character string that can include
uppercase and lowercase letters, numerals and punctuation. The
Authentication Server scrambles the string into an octal string suitable
for use as an encryption key before placing it in the entry's key
field. If this argument is omitted, the command interpreter prompts for
the string and does not echo it visibly.

=item B<-admin_username> <I<admin principal>>

Specifies the user identity under which to authenticate with the
Authentication Server for execution of the command. For more details,
see L<kas(8)>.

=item B<-password_for_admin> <I<admin password>>

Specifies the password of the command's issuer. If it is omitted (as
recommended), the B<kas> command interpreter prompts for it and does not
echo it visibly. For more details, see L<kas(8)>.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
L<kas(8)>.

=item B<-servers> <I<authentication servers>>

Names each machine running an Authentication Server with which to
establish a connection. For more details, see L<kas(8)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity C<anonymous> to the issuer. For more
details, see L<kas(8)>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows the prompts that appear when an administrator
logged in as C<admin> creates an Authentication Database entry for the
user C<smith>, and does not include either the B<-initial_password> or
B<-password_for_admin> arguments.

   % kas create smith
   Password for admin:
   initial_password:
   Verifying, please re-enter initial_password:

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the C<ADMIN> flag set on his or her Authentication
Database entry.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<kas(8)>,
L<kas_examine(8)>,
L<kas_list(8)>,
L<kas_setfields(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
