.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH backup_deletedump 8 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
backup deletedump \- Deletes one or more dump records from the Backup Database
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBbackup deletedump\fR <<\ [\fB\-dumpid\fR\ <\fIdump\ id\fR+] >>> <<\ [\fB\-from\fR\ <\fIdate\ time\fR+] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-to\fR\ <\fIdate\ time\fR+] >>> [\fB\-localauth\fR] <<\ [\fB\-cell\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBbackup dele\fR <<\ [\fB\-d\fR\ <\fIdump\ id\fR+] >>> <<\ [\fB\-f\fR\ <\fIdate\ time\fR+] >>>
    [\-t <\fIdate time\fR>+] [\fB\-l\fR] <<\ [\fB\-c\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>> [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBbackup deletedump\fR command deletes one or more dump records from the
Backup Database. Either use the \fB\-dumpid\fR argument to specify the dump ID
number of one or more dumps, or use the \fB\-from\fR and \fB\-to\fR arguments to
delete the records for all regular dumps created during the time period
bracketed by the specified values.
.PP
Use this command to remove dump records that are incorrect (possibly
because a dump operation was interrupted or failed), or that correspond to
dumps that are expired or otherwise no longer needed.
.SH "CAUTIONS"
The only way to remove the dump record for an appended dump is to remove
the record for its initial dump, and doing so removes the records for all
of the initial dump's associated appended dumps.
.PP
The only way to remove the record for a Backup Database dump (created with
the \fBbackup savedb\fR command) is to specify its dump ID number with the
\fB\-dumpid\fR argument. Using the \fB\-from\fR and \fB\-to\fR arguments never removes
database dump records.
.PP
Removing records of a dump makes it impossible to restore data from the
corresponding tapes or from any dump that refers to the deleted dump as
its parent, directly or indirectly. That is, restore operations must begin
with the full dump and continue with each incremental dump in order. If
the records for a specific dump are removed, it is not possible to restore
data from later incremental dumps unless the deleted records are restored
by running the \fBbackup scantape\fR command with the \fB\-dbadd\fR flag.
.PP
If a dump set contains any dumps that were created outside the time range
specified by the \fB\-from\fR and \fB\-to\fR arguments, the command does not
delete any of the records associated with the dump set, even if some of
them represent dumps created during the time range.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-dumpid\fR <\fIdump id\fR>+" 4
Specifies the dump \s-1ID\s0 of each dump record to delete. The corresponding
dumps must be initial dumps; it is not possible to delete appended dump
records directly, but only by deleting the record of their associated
initial dump. Using this argument is the only way to delete records of
Backup Database dumps (created with the \fBbackup savedb\fR command).
.Sp
Provide either this argument or the \fB\-to\fR (and optionally \fB\-from\fR)
argument.
.Ip "\fB\-from\fR <\fIdate time\fR>+" 4
Specifies the beginning of a range of dates; the record for any dump
created during the indicated period of time is deleted.
.Sp
Omit this argument to indicate the default of midnight (00:00 hours) on 1
January 1970 (\s-1UNIX\s0 time zero), or provide a date value in the format
\fImm/dd/yyyy\fR [\fIhh:\s-1MM\s0\fR]. The month (\fImm\fR), day (\fIdd\fR), and year
(\fIyyyy\fR) are required. The hour and minutes (\fIhh:\s-1MM\s0\fR) are optional, but
if provided must be in 24-hour format (for example, the value \f(CW14:36\fR
represents 2:36 p.m.). If omitted, the time defaults to midnight (00:00
hours).
.Sp
The \fB\-to\fR argument must be provided along with this one.
.Ip "\fB\-to\fR <\fIdate time\fR>+" 4
Specifies the end of a range of dates; the record of any dump created
during the range is deleted from the Backup Database.
.Sp
Provide either the value \f(CWNOW\fR to indicate the current date and time, or
a date value in the same format as for the \fB\-from\fR argument. Valid values
for the year (\fIyyyy\fR) range from \f(CW1970\fR to \f(CW2037\fR; higher values are
not valid because the latest possible date in the standard \s-1UNIX\s0
representation is in February 2038. The command interpreter automatically
reduces any later date to the maximum value.
.Sp
If the time portion (\fIhh:\s-1MM\s0\fR) is omitted, it defaults to 59 seconds after
midnight (00:00:59 hours). Similarly, the \fBbackup\fR command interpreter
automatically adds 59 seconds to any time value provided. In both cases,
adding 59 seconds compensates for how the Backup Database and \fBbackup
dumpinfo\fR command represent dump creation times in hours and minutes
only. For example, the Database records a creation timestamp of \f(CW20:55\fR
for any dump operation that begins between 20:55:00 and 20:55:59.
Automatically adding 59 seconds to a time thus includes the records for
all dumps created during that minute.
.Sp
Provide either this argument, or the \fB\-dumpid\fR argument.  This argument
is required if the \fB\-from\fR argument is provided.
.Sp
\fBCaution:\fR Specifying the value \f(CWNOW\fR for this argument when the
\fB\-from\fR argument is omitted deletes all dump records from the Backup
Database (except for Backup Database dump records created with the
\fBbackup savedb\fR command).
.Ip "\fB\-localauth\fR" 4
Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
\fI/usr/afs/etc/KeyFile\fR file. The \fBbackup\fR command interpreter presents
it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and \s-1VL\s0 Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the \fB\-cell\fR argument. For
more details, see the \fIbackup(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>" 4
Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the \fB\-localauth\fR flag. For more details, see the \fIbackup(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "OUTPUT"
At the conclusion of processing, the output lists the dump IDs of all dump
records deleted in the following format:
.PP
.Vb 4
\&   The following dumps were deleted:
\&        dump ID 1
\&        dump ID 2
\&        etc.
.Ve
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following command deletes the dump record with dump ID 653777462, and
for any appended dumps associated with it:
.PP
.Vb 3
\&   % backup deletedump -dumpid 653777462
\&   The following dumps were deleted:
\&        653777462
.Ve
The following command deletes the Backup Database record of all dumps
created between midnight on 1 January 1997 and 23:59:59 hours on 31
December 1997:
.PP
.Vb 8
\&   % backup deletedump -from 01/01/1997 -to 12/31/1997
\&   The following dumps were deleted:
\&        598324045
\&        598346873
\&           ...
\&           ...
\&        653777523
\&        653779648
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The issuer must be listed in the \fI/usr/afs/etc/UserList\fR file on every
machine where the Backup Server is running, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser \f(CWroot\fR if the \fB\-localauth\fR flag is
included.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIbackup(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbackup_dumpinfo(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbackup_scantape(8)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "backup_deletedump 8"
.IX Name "backup deletedump - Deletes one or more dump records from the Backup Database"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "CAUTIONS"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-dumpid\fR <\fIdump id\fR>+"

.IX Item "\fB\-from\fR <\fIdate time\fR>+"

.IX Item "\fB\-to\fR <\fIdate time\fR>+"

.IX Item "\fB\-localauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "OUTPUT"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

