.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH backup_addhost 8 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
backup addhost \- Adds a Tape Coordinator entry to the Backup Database
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBbackup addhost\fR <<\ \fB\-tapehost\fR\ <\fItape\ machine\ name\fR >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-portoffset\fR\ <\fITC\ port\ offset\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-localauth\fR] <<\ [\fB\-cell\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>> [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBbackup addh\fR <<\ \fB\-t\fR\ <\fItape\ machine\ name\fR >>> <<\ [\fB\-p\fR\ <\fITC\ port\ offset\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-l\fR] <<\ [\fB\-c\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>> [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBbackup addhost\fR command creates a Tape Coordinator entry in the
Backup Database. The entry records
.Ip "\(bu" 4
The host name of the Tape Coordinator machine where the Tape Coordinator
(\fBbutc\fR) process runs, as specified with the \fB\-tapehost\fR argument.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
The Tape Coordinator's port offset number, as specified with the
\fB\-portoffset\fR argument. An entry for the port offset must also appear in
the \fI/usr/afs/backup/tapeconfig\fR file on the Tape Coordinator machine,
where it is mapped to a \s-1UNIX\s0 device name (for a tape device) or pathname
(for a backup data file).
.PP
Each Tape Coordinator must have its own port offset number, and the
command fails if a Backup Database entry already exists for the requested
port offset number. To display existing Tape Coordinator entries, use the
\fBbackup listhosts\fR command.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-tapehost\fR <\fItape machine name\fR>" 4
Specifies the fully-qualified hostname of the machine for which to create
a Tape Coordinator entry in the Backup Database. The machine must have an
entry in either the cell's naming service (such as the Domain Name
Service) or the host file (\fI/etc/hosts\fR or equivalent) on the machine
where the command is issued.
.Ip "\fB\-portoffset\fR <\fI\s-1TC\s0 port offset\fR>" 4
Specifies the Tape Coordinator's port offset number. Provide an integer
from the range \f(CW0\fR through \f(CW58510\fR, or omit this argument to use the
default value of \f(CW0\fR (zero). The value must match the port offset number
recorded for the same combination of Tape Coordinator and tape device or
file in the \fI/usr/afs/backup/tapeconfig\fR file on the Tape Coordinator
machine named by the \fB\-tapehost\fR argument.
.Ip "\fB\-localauth\fR" 4
Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
\fI/usr/afs/etc/KeyFile\fR file. The \fBbackup\fR command interpreter presents
it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and \s-1VL\s0 Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the \fB\-cell\fR argument. For
more details, see the \fIbackup(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>" 4
Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the \fB\-localauth\fR flag. For more details, see the \fIbackup(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following command creates an entry in the Backup Database that assigns
port offset number 4 to a Tape Coordinator running on the machine
\f(CWbackup1.abc.com\fR:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   % backup addhost -tapehost backup1.abc.com -portoffset 4
.Ve
The following command creates a Backup Database entry that assigns port
offset number 0 to a Tape Coordinator on the machine \f(CWbackup3.abc.com\fR:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   % backup addhost backup3.abc.com
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The issuer must be listed in the \fI/usr/afs/etc/UserList\fR file on every
machine where the Backup Server is running, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser \f(CWroot\fR if the \fB\-localauth\fR flag is
included.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIbackup(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbackup_delhost(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbackup_listhosts(8)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "backup_addhost 8"
.IX Name "backup addhost - Adds a Tape Coordinator entry to the Backup Database"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-tapehost\fR <\fItape machine name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-portoffset\fR <\fI\s-1TC\s0 port offset\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-localauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

