.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH backup_jobs 8 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
backup jobs \- Lists pending and running operations in interactive mode
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBjobs\fR [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBj\fR [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBbackup jobs\fR command lists the job ID number and status of each
\fBbackup\fR operation running or pending in the current interactive session.
.PP
This command can be issued in interactive mode only. If the issuer of the
\fBbackup interactive\fR command included the \fB\-localauth\fR flag, the
\fB\-cell\fR argument, or both, those settings apply to this command also.
.PP
To terminate operations that appear in the output, issue the \fBbackup
kill\fR command and identify the operation to cancel with the job ID number
from this command's output.
.PP
To check the status of a Tape Coordinator, rather than of a certain
operation, use the \fBbackup status\fR command.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "OUTPUT"
The output always includes the expiration date and time of the tokens that
the \fBbackup\fR command interpreter is using during the current interactive
session, in the following format:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   <date>   <time>: TOKEN EXPIRATION
.Ve
If the execution date and time specified for a scheduled dump operation is
later than <date time>, then its individual line (as described in the
following paragraphs) appears below this line to indicate that the current
tokens will not be available to it.
.PP
If the issuer of the backup command included the \fB\-localauth\fR flag when
entering interactive mode, the line instead reads as follows:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   :  TOKEN NEVER EXPIRES
.Ve
The entry for a scheduled dump operation has the following format:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   Job <job_ID>:  <timestamp>:  dump  <volume_set>  <dump_level>
.Ve
where
.Ip "<job_ID>" 4
Is a job identification number assigned by the Backup System.
.Ip "<timestamp>" 4
Indicates the date and time the dump operation is to begin, in the format
\fImonth\fR/\fIdate\fR/\fIyear\fR \fIhours\fR:\fIminutes\fR (in 24-hour format)
.Ip "<volume_set>" 4
Indicates the volume set to dump.
.Ip "<dump_level>" 4
Indicates the dump level at which to perform the dump operation.
.PP
The line for a pending or running operation of any other type has the
following format:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   Job <job_ID>:  <operation>  <status>
.Ve
where
.Ip "<job_ID>" 4
Is a job identification number assigned by the Backup System.
.Ip "<operation>" 4
Identifies the operation the Tape Coordinator is performing, which is
initiated by the indicated command:
.Ip "Dump (\fIdump name\fR)" 8
Initiated by the backup dump command. The \fIdump name\fR has the following
format:
.Sp
.Vb 1
\&    <volume_set_name>.<dump_level_name>
.Ve
.Ip "Restore" 8
Initiated by the \fBbackup diskrestore\fR, \fBbackup volrestore\fR, or \fBbackup
volsetrestore\fR command.
.Ip "Labeltape (\fItape_label\fR)" 8
Initiated by the \fBbackup labeltape\fRn command. The \fItape_label\fR is the
name specified by the \fBbackup labeltape\fR command's \fB\-name\fR or \fB\-pname\fR
argument.
.Ip "Scantape" 8
Initiated by the \fBbackup scantape\fR command.
.Ip "SaveDb" 8
Initiated by the \fBbackup savedb\fR command.
.Ip "RestoreDb" 8
Initiated by the \fBbackup restoredb\fR command.
.Ip "<status>" 4
Indicates the job's current status in one of the following messages. If no
message appears, the job is either still pending or has finished.
.Ip "\fInumber\fR Kbytes, volume \fIvolume_name\fR" 8
For a running dump operation, indicates the number of kilobytes copied to
tape or a backup data file so far, and the volume currently being dumped.
.Ip "\fInumber\fR Kbytes, restore.volume" 8
For a running restore operation, indicates the number of kilobytes copied
into \s-1AFS\s0 from a tape or a backup data file so far.
.Ip "[abort requested]" 8
The \fBbackup kill\fR command was issued, but the termination signal has yet
to reach the Tape Coordinator.
.Ip "[abort sent]" 8
The operation is canceled by the \fBbackup kill\fR command.  Once the Backup
System removes an operation from the queue or stops it from running, it no
longer appears at all in the output from the command.
.Ip "[butc contact lost]" 8
The backup command interpreter cannot reach the Tape Coordinator. The
message can mean either that the Tape Coordinator handling the operation
was terminated or failed while the operation was running, or that the
connection to the Tape Coordinator timed out.
.Ip "[done]" 8
The Tape Coordinator has finished the operation.
.Ip "[drive wait]" 8
The operation is waiting for the specified tape drive to become free.
.Ip "[operator wait]" 8
The Tape Coordinator is waiting for the backup operator to insert a tape
in the drive.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following example shows that two restore operations and one dump
operation are running (presumably on different Tape Coordinators) and that
the \fBbackup\fR command interpreter's tokens expire on 22 April 1999 at
10:45 am:
.PP
.Vb 5
\&   backup> jobs
\&   Job 1: Restore, 1306 Kbytes, restore.volume
\&   Job 2: Dump (user.sunday1), 34 Kbytes, volume user.pat.backup
\&   Job 3: Restore, 2498 Kbytes, restore.volume
\&          04/22/1999 10:45: TOKEN EXPIRATION
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
None. However, queuing any operation requires privilege, and it is
possible to issue this command only within the interactive session in
which the jobs are queued.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIbackup(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbackup_interactive(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbackup_kill(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbackup_quit(8)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "backup_jobs 8"
.IX Name "backup jobs - Lists pending and running operations in interactive mode"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "OUTPUT"

.IX Item "<job_ID>"

.IX Item "<timestamp>"

.IX Item "<volume_set>"

.IX Item "<dump_level>"

.IX Item "<job_ID>"

.IX Item "<operation>"

.IX Item "Dump (\fIdump name\fR)"

.IX Item "Restore"

.IX Item "Labeltape (\fItape_label\fR)"

.IX Item "Scantape"

.IX Item "SaveDb"

.IX Item "RestoreDb"

.IX Item "<status>"

.IX Item "\fInumber\fR Kbytes, volume \fIvolume_name\fR"

.IX Item "\fInumber\fR Kbytes, restore.volume"

.IX Item "[abort requested]"

.IX Item "[abort sent]"

.IX Item "[butc contact lost]"

.IX Item "[done]"

.IX Item "[drive wait]"

.IX Item "[operator wait]"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

