.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH backup_status 8 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
backup status \- Reports a Tape Coordinator's status
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBbackup status\fR <<\ [\fB\-portoffset\fR\ <\fITC\ port\ offset\fR] >>> [\fB\-localauth\fR]
    <<\ [\fB\-cell\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>> [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBbackup st\fR <<\ [\fB\-p\fR\ <\fITC\ port\ offset\fR] >>> [\fB\-l\fR] <<\ [\fB\-c\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBbackup status\fR command displays which operation, if any, the
indicated Tape Coordinator is currently executing.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-portoffset\fR <\fI\s-1TC\s0 port offset\fR>" 4
Specifies the port offset number of the Tape Coordinator for which to
report the status.
.Ip "\fB\-localauth\fR" 4
Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
\fI/usr/afs/etc/KeyFile\fR file. The \fBbackup\fR command interpreter presents
it to the Backup Server, Volume Server and \s-1VL\s0 Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the \fB\-cell\fR argument. For
more details, see the \fIbackup(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>" 4
Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the \fB\-localauth\fR flag. For more details, see the \fIbackup(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "OUTPUT"
The following message indicates that the Tape Coordinator is not currently
performing an operation:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   Tape coordinator is idle
.Ve
Otherwise, the output includes a message of the following format for each
running or pending operation:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   Task <task_ID>:  <operation>:   <status>
.Ve
where
.Ip "<task_ID>" 4
Is a task identification number assigned by the Tape Coordinator.  It
begins with the Tape Coordinator's port offset number.
.Ip "<operation>" 4
Identifies the operation the Tape Coordinator is performing, which is
initiated by the indicated command:
.Ip "Dump" 8
The \fBbackup dump\fR command.
.Ip "Restore" 8
The \fBbackup diskrestore\fR, \fBbackup volrestore\fR, or \fBbackup
volsetrestore\fR commands.
.Ip "Labeltape" 8
The \fBbackup labeltape\fR command.
.Ip "Scantape" 8
The \fBbackup scantape\fR command.
.Ip "SaveDb" 8
The \fBbackup savedb\fR command.
.Ip "RestoreDb" 8
The \fBbackup restoredb\fR command.
.Ip "<status>" 4
Indicates the job's current status in one of the following messages.
.Ip "\fInumber\fR Kbytes transferred, volume \fIvolume_name\fR" 8
For a running dump operation, indicates the number of kilobytes copied to
tape or a backup data file so far, and the volume currently being dumped.
.Ip "\fInumber\fR Kbytes, restore.volume" 8
For a running restore operation, indicates the number of kilobytes copied
into \s-1AFS\s0 from a tape or a backup data file so far.
.Ip "[abort requested]" 8
The \fBbackup kill\fR command was issued, but the termination signal has yet
to reach the Tape Coordinator.
.Ip "[abort sent]" 8
The operation is canceled by the \fBbackup kill\fR command.  Once the Backup
System removes an operation from the queue or stops it from running, it no
longer appears at all in the output from the command.
.Ip "[butc contact lost]" 8
The \fBbackup\fR command interpreter cannot reach the Tape Coordinator. The
message can mean either that the Tape Coordinator handling the operation
was terminated or failed while the operation was running, or that the
connection to the Tape Coordinator timed out.
.Ip "[done]" 8
The Tape Coordinator has finished the operation.
.Ip "[drive wait]" 8
The operation is waiting for the specified tape drive to become free.
.Ip "[operator wait]" 8
The Tape Coordinator is waiting for the backup operator to insert a tape
in the drive.
.PP
If the Tape Coordinator is communicating with an \s-1XBSA\s0 server (a
third-party backup utility that implements the Open Group's Backup Service
\s-1API\s0 [\s-1XBSA\s0]), the following message appears last in the output:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   <XBSA_program> Tape coordinator
.Ve
where <XBSA_program> is the name of the \s-1XBSA\s0\-compliant program.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following example shows that the Tape Coordinator with port offset 4
has so far dumped about 1.5 MB of data for the current dump operation, and
is currently dumping the volume named \f(CWuser.pat.backup\fR:
.PP
.Vb 2
\&   % backup status -portoffset 4
\&   Task 4001:  Dump:   1520 Kbytes transferred,  volume user.pat.backup
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The issuer must be listed in the \fI/usr/afs/etc/UserList\fR file on every
machine where the Backup Server is running, or must be logged onto a
server machine as the local superuser \f(CWroot\fR if the \fB\-localauth\fR flag is
included.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIbackup(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbutc(8)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "backup_status 8"
.IX Name "backup status - Reports a Tape Coordinator's status"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-portoffset\fR <\fI\s-1TC\s0 port offset\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-localauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "OUTPUT"

.IX Item "<task_ID>"

.IX Item "<operation>"

.IX Item "Dump"

.IX Item "Restore"

.IX Item "Labeltape"

.IX Item "Scantape"

.IX Item "SaveDb"

.IX Item "RestoreDb"

.IX Item "<status>"

.IX Item "\fInumber\fR Kbytes transferred, volume \fIvolume_name\fR"

.IX Item "\fInumber\fR Kbytes, restore.volume"

.IX Item "[abort requested]"

.IX Item "[abort sent]"

.IX Item "[butc contact lost]"

.IX Item "[done]"

.IX Item "[drive wait]"

.IX Item "[operator wait]"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

