.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH bos_shutdown 8 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
bos shutdown \- Stops a process without changing its status flag
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBbos shutdown\fR <<\ \fB\-server\fR\ <\fImachine\ name\fR >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-instance\fR\ <\fIinstances\fR+] >>> [\fB\-wait\fR] <<\ [\fB\-cell\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-noauth\fR] [\fB\-localauth\fR] [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBbos sh\fR <<\ \fB\-s\fR\ <\fImachine\ name\fR >>> <<\ [\fB\-i\fR\ <\fIinstances\fR+] >>> [\fB\-w\fR]
    <<\ [\fB\-c\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>> [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-l\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBbos shutdown\fR command stops, on the server machine named by the
\fB\-server\fR argument, either
.Ip "\(bu" 4
All of the currently running \s-1AFS\s0 server processes, except the \s-1BOS\s0 Server.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
Only the processes specified by the \fB\-instance\fR argument.
.PP
This command does not change a process's status flag in the
\fI/usr/afs/local/BosConfig\fR file, but only in the \s-1BOS\s0 Server's memory. To
stop a process and change its \fIBosConfig\fR status flag, use the \fBbos
stop\fR command instead.
.PP
Once stopped with this command, a process does not run again until an
administrator starts it by using the \fBbos start\fR, \fBbos startup\fR, or
\fBbos restart\fR command, or until the \s-1BOS\s0 Server restarts (assuming that
the process's \fIBosConfig\fR status flag is \f(CWRun\fR).
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-server\fR <\fImachine name\fR>" 4
Indicates the server machine on which to stop processes. Identify the
machine by \s-1IP\s0 address or its host name (either fully-qualified or
abbreviated unambiguously). For details, see the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-instance\fR <\fIinstances\fR>+" 4
Names each process to stop. Use the process name assigned with the
\fB\-instance\fR argument to the \fBbos create\fR command. The output from the
\fBbos status\fR command lists the names. Omit this argument to stop all
processes other than the \s-1BOS\s0 Server.
.Ip "\fB\-wait\fR" 4
Delays the return of the command shell prompt until all processes actually
stop. If this argument is omitted, the prompt returns almost immediately
even if all processes are not stopped.
.Ip "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>" 4
Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the \fB\-localauth\fR flag. For more details, see the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-noauth\fR" 4
Assigns the unprivileged identity \f(CWanonymous\fR to the issuer. Do not
combine this flag with the \fB\-localauth\fR flag. For more details, see
the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-localauth\fR" 4
Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
\fI/usr/afs/etc/KeyFile\fR file. The \fBbos\fR command interpreter presents the
ticket to the \s-1BOS\s0 Server during mutual authentication. Do not combine this
flag with the \fB\-cell\fR or \fB\-noauth\fR options. For more details, see
the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following command stops all processes other than the BOS Server on the
machine \f(CWfs3.abc.com\fR.
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   % bos shutdown fs3.abc.com
.Ve
The following command stops the \f(CWupserver\fR process (server portion of the
Update Server) on the machine \f(CWfs5.abc.com\fR.
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   % bos shutdown -server fs5.abc.com -instance upserver
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The issuer must be listed in the \fI/usr/afs/etc/UserList\fR file on the
machine named by the \fB\-server\fR argument, or must be logged onto a server
machine as the local superuser \f(CWroot\fR if the \fB\-localauth\fR flag is
included.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIBosConfig(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIKeyFile(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIUserList(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_create(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_restart(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_start(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_startup(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_status(8)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "bos_shutdown 8"
.IX Name "bos shutdown - Stops a process without changing its status flag"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-server\fR <\fImachine name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-instance\fR <\fIinstances\fR>+"

.IX Item "\fB\-wait\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-noauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-localauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

