.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH bos_addkey 8 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
bos addkey \- Adds a new server encryption key to the KeyFile file
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBbos addkey\fR <<\ \fB\-server\fR\ <\fImachine\ name\fR >>> <<\ [\fB\-key\fR\ <\fIkey\fR] >>>
    <<\ \fB\-kvno\fR\ <\fIkey\ version\ number\fR >>> <<\ [\fB\-cell\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-noauth\fR] [\fB\-localauth\fR] [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBbos addk\fR <<\ \fB\-s\fR\ <\fImachine\ name\fR >>> <<\ [\fB\-ke\fR\ <\fIkey\fR] >>>
    <<\ \fB\-kv\fR\ <\fIkey\ version\ number\fR >>> <<\ [\fB\-ce\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>> [\fB\-n\fR]
    [\fB\-l\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBbos addkey\fR command constructs a server encryption key from the text
string provided, assigns it the key version number specified with the
\fB\-kvno\fR argument, and adds it to the \fI/usr/afs/etc/KeyFile\fR file on the
machine specified with the \fB\-server\fR argument. Be sure to use the \fBkas
setpassword\fR or \fBkas setkey\fR command to add the same key to the \f(CWafs\fR
entry in the Authentication Database.
.PP
Do not use the \fB\-key\fR argument, which echoes the password string visibly
on the screen. If the argument is omitted, the BOS Server prompts for the
string and does not echo it visibly:
.PP
.Vb 2
\&   Input key:
\&   Retype input key:
.Ve
The BOS Server prohibits reuse of any key version number already listed in
the \fI/usr/afs/etc/KeyFile\fR file. This ensures that users who still have
tickets sealed with the current key are not prevented from communicating
with a server process because the current key is overwritten with a new
key. Use the \fBbos listkeys\fR command to display the key version numbers in
the \fI/usr/afs/etc/KeyFile\fR file.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-server\fR <\fImachine name\fR>" 4
Indicates the server machine on which to change the
\fI/usr/afs/etc/KeyFile\fR file. Identify the machine by \s-1IP\s0 address or its
host name (either fully-qualified or abbreviated unambiguously). For
details, see the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage.
.Sp
In cells that use the Update Server to distribute the contents of the
\fI/usr/afs/etc\fR directory, it is conventional to specify only the system
control machine as a value for the \fB\-server\fR argument. Otherwise, repeat
the command for each file server machine. For further discussion, see
the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-key\fR <\fIkey\fR>" 4
Specifies a character string just like a password; the \s-1BOS\s0 Server calls a
\s-1DES\s0 conversion function to encode it into a form appropriate for use as an
encryption key. Omit this argument to have the \s-1BOS\s0 Server prompt for the
string instead.
.Ip "\fB\-kvno\fR <\fIkey version number\fR>" 4
Defines the new key's key version number. It must be an integer in the
range from \f(CW0\fR (zero) through \f(CW255\fR.  For the sake of simplicity, use
the number one higher than the current highest key version number; use the
\fBbos listkeys\fR command to display key version numbers.
.Ip "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>" 4
Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the \fB\-localauth\fR flag. For more details, see the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-noauth\fR" 4
Assigns the unprivileged identity \f(CWanonymous\fR to the issuer. Do not combine
this flag with the \fB\-localauth\fR flag. For more details, see the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-localauth\fR" 4
Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
\fI/usr/afs/etc/KeyFile\fR file. The \fBbos\fR command interpreter presents the
ticket to the \s-1BOS\s0 Server during mutual authentication. Do not combine this
flag with the \fB\-cell\fR or \fB\-noauth\fR options. For more details, see
the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "OUTPUT"
If the strings typed at the \f(CWInput key\fR and \f(CWRetype input key\fR prompts
do not match, the following message appears, and the command exits without
adding a new key:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   Input key mismatch
.Ve
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following command adds a new server encryption key with key version
number 14 to the \fBKeyFile\fR file kept on the machine \f(CWfs1.abc.com\fR (the
system control machine). The issuer omits the \fB\-key\fR argument, as
recommended, and provides the password at the prompts.
.PP
.Vb 3
\&   % bos addkey -server fs1.abc.com -kvno 14
\&   Input key:
\&   Retype input key:
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The issuer must be listed in the \fI/usr/afs/etc/UserList\fR file on the
machine named by the \fB\-server\fR argument, or must be logged onto a server
machine as the local superuser \f(CWroot\fR if the \fB\-localauth\fR flag is
included.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIKeyFile(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIUserList(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_listkeys(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_removekey(8)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "bos_addkey 8"
.IX Name "bos addkey - Adds a new server encryption key to the KeyFile file"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-server\fR <\fImachine name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-key\fR <\fIkey\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-kvno\fR <\fIkey version number\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-noauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-localauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "OUTPUT"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

