.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH bos_prune 8 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
bos prune \- Removes obsolete files from /usr/afs/bin and /usr/afs/logs
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBbos prune\fR <<\ \fB\-server\fR\ <\fImachine\ name\fR >>> [\fB\-bak\fR] [\fB\-old\fR] [\fB\-core\fR]
    [\fB\-all\fR] <<\ [\fB\-cell\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>> [\fB\-noauth\fR] [\fB\-localauth\fR]
    [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBbos p\fR <<\ \fB\-s\fR\ <\fImachine\ name\fR >>> [\fB\-b\fR] [\fB\-o\fR] [\fB\-co\fR] [\fB\-a\fR]
    <<\ [\fB\-ce\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>> [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-l\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBbos prune\fR command removes files from the local disk of the server
machine named by the \fB\-server\fR argument, as specified by one or more of
the following flags provided on the command line:
.Ip "\(bu" 4
The \fB\-bak\fR flag removes all files from the \fI/usr/afs/bin\fR directory that
have a \f(CW.BAK\fR extension.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
The \fB\-old\fR flag removes all files from the \fI/usr/afs/bin\fR directory that
have a \f(CW.OLD\fR extension.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
The \fB\-core\fR flag removes all files from the \fI/usr/afs/logs\fR directory
that have a \f(CWcore.\fR prefix.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
The \fB\-all\fR flag removes all three types of files at once.
.PP
(If none of these flags are included, the command appears to succeed, but
removes no files at all.)
.PP
To display the timestamp on the current, \f(CW.BAK\fR, and \f(CW.OLD\fR versions of
one or more files, use the \fBbos getdate\fR command.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-server\fR <\fImachine name\fR>" 4
Indicates the server machine from which to remove files. Identify the
machine by \s-1IP\s0 address or its host name (either fully-qualified or
abbreviated unambiguously). For details, see the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-bak\fR" 4
Removes all files from the \fI/usr/afs/bin\fR directory that have a \f(CW.BAK\fR
extension. Do not combine this flag and the \fB\-all\fR flag.
.Ip "\fB\-old\fR" 4
Removes all files from the \fI/usr/afs/bin\fR directory that have a \f(CW.OLD\fR
extension. Do not combine this flag and the \fB\-all\fR flag.
.Ip "\fB\-core\fR" 4
Removes all files from the \fI/usr/afs/logs\fR directory that have a \f(CWcore.\fR
prefix. Do not combine this flag and the \fB\-all\fR flag.
.Ip "\fB\-all\fR" 4
Combines the effect of the \fB\-bak\fR, \fB\-old\fR, and \fB\-core\fR flags. Do not
combine this flag with any of those three.
.Ip "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>" 4
Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the \fB\-localauth\fR flag. For more details, see the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-noauth\fR" 4
Assigns the unprivileged identity \f(CWanonymous\fR to the issuer. Do not
combine this flag with the \fB\-localauth\fR flag. For more details, see
the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-localauth\fR" 4
Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
\fI/usr/afs/etc/KeyFile\fR file. The \fBbos\fR command interpreter presents the
ticket to the \s-1BOS\s0 Server during mutual authentication. Do not combine this
flag with the \fB\-cell\fR or \fB\-noauth\fR options. For more details, see
the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following example removes all files from the \fI/usr/afs/bin\fR directory
on the machine \f(CWfs3.abc.com\fR that have a \f(CW.BAK\fR or \f(CW.OLD\fR extension.
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   % bos prune -server fs3.abc.com -bak -old
.Ve
The following example removes all files from the \fI/usr/afs/bin\fR directory
on the machine \f(CWdb2.abc.com\fR that have a \f(CW.BAK\fR or \f(CW.OLD\fR extension,
and all files from the \fI/usr/afs/logs\fR directory that have a \f(CWcore.\fR
prefix.
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   % bos prune -server db2.abc.com -all
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The issuer must be listed in the \fI/usr/afs/etc/UserList\fR file on the
machine named by the \fB\-server\fR argument, or must be logged onto a server
machine as the local superuser \f(CWroot\fR if the \fB\-localauth\fR flag is
included.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIKeyFile(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIUserList(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_getdate(8)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "bos_prune 8"
.IX Name "bos prune - Removes obsolete files from /usr/afs/bin and /usr/afs/logs"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-server\fR <\fImachine name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-bak\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-old\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-core\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-all\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-noauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-localauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

