.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH bos_status 8 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
bos status \- Displays the status of server processes
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
<<\ \fBbos\ status\ \-server\fR\ <\fImachine\ name\fR >>>  [\-instance <\fIserver process name\fR>+]
[\fB\-long\fR]  <<\ [\fB\-cell\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>>  [\fB\-noauth\fR]  [\fB\-localauth\fR]  [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
<<\ \fBbos\ stat\ \-s\fR\ <\fImachine\ name\fR >>>  [\-i <\fIserver process name\fR>+]
[\fB\-lon\fR]  <<\ [\fB\-c\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>>  [\fB\-n\fR]  [\fB\-loc\fR]  [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The bos status command reports the status of processes on the
server machine named by the \fB\-server\fR argument, either
.Ip "\(bu" 4
All of the \s-1AFS\s0 server processes listed in the
\fI/usr/afs/local/BosConfig\fR file
.Ip "\(bu" 4
Only these processes named by the \-instance argument
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-server\fR <\fImachine name\fR>" 4
Indicates the server machine for which to report server process
status. Identify the machine by \s-1IP\s0 address or its host name (either
fully-qualified or abbreviated unambiguously). For details, see the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "-instance" 4
Names each process for which to report status. Use the process name
assigned with the \fB\-instance\fR argument to the \fBbos\fR
command. The output from the \fBbos status\fR command lists the
names.
.Ip "-long" 4
Produces more detailed status information.
.Ip "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>" 4
Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this
argument with the \fB\-localauth\fR flag. For more details, see the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-noauth\fR" 4
Assigns the unprivileged identity \f(CWanonymous\fR to the
issuer. Do not combine this flag with the \fB\-localauth\fR
flag. For more details, see the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-localauth\fR" 4
Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
\fI/usr/afs/etc/KeyFile\fR file. The \fBbos\fR command
interpreter presents the ticket to the \s-1BOS\s0 Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the \fB\-cell\fR or
\fB\-noauth\fR options. For more details, see the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options
are ignored.
.SH "OUTPUT"
The output for a process includes at least one line, which reports one of
the following as the process's current status:
.Ip "\(bu" 4
\f(CWcurrently running normally\fR. The process's status
flag in the \fBBosConfig\fR file is \f(CWRun\fR. For
\fBcron\fR entries, this message indicates only that the command is
scheduled to run, not necessarily that it was executing when the \fBbos
status\fR command was issued.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
\f(CWdisabled\fR. The process is not running, and its
\fBBosConfig\fR status flag is \f(CWNotRun\fR.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
\f(CWtemporarily disabled\fR. The process is not running
although its status flag in the \fBBosConfig\fR file is
\f(CWRun\fR. Either an administrator used the \fBbos
shutdown\fR command to stop it, or the
.Ip "\(bu" 4
\s-1BOS\s0 Server stopped trying to restart it after numerous failed
attempts. In the second case, the auxiliary message is \f(CWstopped for
too many errors\fR.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
\f(CWtemporarily enabled\fR. The process is running although its
status flag in the \fBBosConfig\fR file is \f(CWNotRun\fR. An
administrator has used the \fBbos startup\fR command to start it.
.PP
If one of the following special circumstances applies to the process, the
indicated message appears in its entry:
.Ip "\(bu" 4
\f(CWhas core file\fR. The process failed and created a core
file in the \fI/usr/afs/logs\fR directory. If the \s-1BOS\s0 Server was
able to restart the process after the failure, the primary status is
\f(CWcurrently running normally\fR.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
\f(CWstopped for too many  errors\fR. The reason for the primary
status \f(CWtemporarily  disabled\fR is that the \s-1BOS\s0 Server's attempts
to restart the process all failed.
.PP
The entry for the fs process always includes a second line to
report the process's \f(CWAuxiliary status\fR, which is one of the
following:
.Ip "\(bu" 4
\f(CWfile server running\fR. The File Server and Volume Server
components of the File Server process are running normally.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
\f(CWsalvaging file system\fR. The Salvager is running, so the
File Server and Volume Server are temporarily disabled. The \s-1BOS\s0 Server
restarts them as soon as the Salvager is finished.
.PP
The entry for a cron process includes an \f(CWAuxiliary
status\fR that reports when the command will next execute.
.PP
If the \-long flag is used, each entry includes the following
additional information:
.Ip "\(bu" 4
The process's type (\f(CWsimple\fR, \f(CWfs\fR, or
\f(CWcron\fR).
.Ip "\(bu" 4
The day and time the process last started or restarted.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
The number of \f(CWproc starts\fR, which is how many times the \s-1BOS\s0
Server has started or restarted the process since it started itself.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
The \f(CWLast exit\fR time when the process (or one of the component
processes in the \fBfs\fR process) last terminated. This line does
not appear if the process has not terminated since the \s-1BOS\s0 Server
started.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
The \f(CWLast error exit\fR time when the process (or one of the
component processes in the \fBfs\fR process) last failed due to an
error. A further explanation such as \f(CWdue to shutdown request\fR
sometimes appears. This line does not appear if the process has not
failed since the \s-1BOS\s0 Server started.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
Each command that the \s-1BOS\s0 Server invokes to start the process, as
specified by the \fB\-cmd\fR argument to the \fBbos create\fR
command.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
The pathname of the notifier program that the \s-1BOS\s0 Server invokes when the
process terminates (if any), as specified by the \fB\-notifier\fR argument
to the \fBbos create\fR command.
.PP
If the \-long flag is provided and the \s-1BOS\s0 Server discovers that
the mode bits on files and subdirectories in the local \fI/usr/afs\fR
directory differ from the expected values, it prints the following warning
message:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   Bosserver reports inappropriate access on server directories
.Ve
The following chart summarizes the expected mode bit settings. A
question mark indicates that the \s-1BOS\s0 Server does not check that bit.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following example command displays the status of processes on the
machine \fBfs3.abc.com\fR:
.PP
.Vb 9
\&   % bos status fs3.abc.com
\&   Instance buserver, currently running normally.
\&   Instance kaserver, currently running normally.
\&   Instance ptserver, currently running normally.
\&   Instance vlserver, currently running normally.
\&   Instance fs, has core file, currently running normally.
\&       Auxiliary status is: file server running.
\&   Instance upserver, currently running normally.
\&   Instance runntp, currently running normally.
.Ve
The following example command displays a detailed status report for the
\fBfs\fR and \fBptserver\fR processes on the machine
\fBfs1.abc.com\fR.
.PP
.Vb 13
\&   % bos status -server fs1.abc.com -instance fs ptserver -long
\&   Instance fs, (type is fs), currently running normally.
\&      Auxiliary status is: file server running.
\&      Process last started at Wed Jan 7 5:34:49 1998 (3 proc starts)
\&      Last exit at Wed Jan 7 5:34:49 1998
\&      Last error exit at Wed Jan 7 5:34:49 1998, due to shutdown
\&          request
\&      Command 1 is '/usr/afs/bin/fileserver'
\&      Command 2 is '/usr/afs/bin/volserver'
\&      Command 3 is '/usr/afs/bin/salvager'
\&   Instance ptserver, (type is simple) currently running normally.
\&      Process last started at Tue Jan 6 8:29:19 1998 (1 proc starts)
\&      Command 1 is '/usr/afs/bin/ptserver'
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
None
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIBosConfig(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIKeyFile(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_create(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_shutdown(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_startup(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_status(8)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "bos_status 8"
.IX Name "bos status - Displays the status of server processes"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-server\fR <\fImachine name\fR>"

.IX Item "-instance"

.IX Item "-long"

.IX Item "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-noauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-localauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "OUTPUT"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

