.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH bos_getdate 8 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
bos getdate \- Displays the time stamps on an AFS binary file
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBbos getdate\fR <<\ \fB\-server\fR\ <\fImachine\ name\fR >>> <<\ \fB\-file\fR\ <\fIfiles\ to\ check\fR+ >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-dir\fR\ <\fIdestination\ dir\fR] >>> <<\ [\fB\-cell\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-noauth\fR] [\fB\-localauth\fR] [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBbos getd\fR <<\ \fB\-s\fR\ <\fImachine\ name\fR >>> <<\ \fB\-f\fR\ <\fIfiles\ to\ check\fR+ >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-d\fR\ <\fIdestination\ dir\fR] >>> <<\ [\fB\-c\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>> [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-l\fR]
    [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBbos getdate\fR command displays the time stamps on the current
version,\f(CW .BAK\fR version (if any) and \f(CW.OLD\fR version (if any) of each
binary file named by the \fB\-file\fR argument. (The BOS Server automatically
creates \f(CW.BAK\fR and \f(CW.OLD\fR versions when new binaries are installed with
the \fBbos install\fR command.) The files must reside in the \fI/usr/afs/bin\fR
directory on the server machine named by the \fB\-server\fR argument unless
the \fB\-dir\fR argument indicates an alternate directory.
.PP
To revert to the \f(CW.BAK\fR version of a binary, use the \fBbos uninstall\fR
command. To remove obsolete binary files from the \fI/usr/afs/bin\fR
directory, use the \fBbos prune\fR command.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-server\fR <\fImachine name\fR>" 4
Indicates the server machine from which to list binary files.  Identify
the machine by \s-1IP\s0 address or its host name (either fully-qualified or
abbreviated unambiguously). For details, see the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage.
.Sp
All server machines of the same \s-1AFS\s0 system type show the same timestamps
if the binaries were installed properly on the binary distribution machine
for this machine's system type, and if all other machines of that type are
running the appropriate \f(CWupclientbin\fR process.
.Ip "\fB\-file\fR <\fIfiles to check\fR>+" 4
Names each binary file to list.
.Ip "\fB\-dir\fR <\fIdestination dir\fR>" 4
Specifies the complete pathname of the local disk directory containing
each file named by the \fB\-file\fR argument. It is necessary only if the
files are not in the \fI/usr/afs/bin\fR directory.
.Ip "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>" 4
Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the \fB\-localauth\fR flag. For more details, see the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-noauth\fR" 4
Assigns the unprivileged identity \f(CWanonymous\fR to the issuer. Do not
combine this flag with the \fB\-localauth\fR flag. For more details, see
the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-localauth\fR" 4
Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
\fI/usr/afs/etc/KeyFile\fR file. The \fBbos\fR command interpreter presents the
ticket to the \s-1BOS\s0 Server during mutual authentication. Do not combine this
flag with the \fB\-cell\fR or \fB\-noauth\fR options. For more details, see
the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "OUTPUT"
For each file specified with the \-file argument, the output displays the
time stamp on the current (unmarked), \f(CW.BAK\fR, and \f(CW.OLD\fR version. The
output explicitly reports that a version does not exist, rather than
simply omitting it.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following command examines the time stamps on the files with basename
\f(CWkaserver\fR on the machine \f(CWfs2.abc.com\fR:
.PP
.Vb 3
\&   % bos getdate -server fs2.abc.com -file kaserver
\&   File /usr/afs/bin/kaserver dated Mon Jan 4 10:00:36 1999.
\&   .BAK file dated Wed Dec 9 18:55:04 1998, no .OLD file.
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
None
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIKeyFile(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_install(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_prune(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_uninstall(8)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "bos_getdate 8"
.IX Name "bos getdate - Displays the time stamps on an AFS binary file"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-server\fR <\fImachine name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-file\fR <\fIfiles to check\fR>+"

.IX Item "\fB\-dir\fR <\fIdestination dir\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-noauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-localauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "OUTPUT"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

