.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH bosserver 8 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
bosserver \- Initializes the BOS Server
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBbosserver\fR [\fB\-noauth\fR] [\fB\-log\fR] [\fB\-enable_peer_stats\fR]
    [\fB\-enable_process_stats\fR] [\fB\-help\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The bosserver command initializes the Basic OverSeer (BOS) Server
(\fBbosserver\fR process). In the conventional configuration, the binary file
is located in the \fI/usr/afs/bin\fR directory on a file server machine.
.PP
The BOS Server must run on every file server machine and helps to automate
file server administration by performing the following tasks:
.Ip "\(bu" 4
Monitors the other \s-1AFS\s0 server processes on the local machine, to make sure
they are running correctly.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
Automatically restarts failed processes, without contacting a human
operator. When restarting multiple server processes simultaneously, the
\s-1BOS\s0 Server takes interdependencies into account and initiates restarts in
the correct order.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
Processes commands from the bos suite that administrators issue to verify
the status of server processes, install and start new processes, stop
processes either temporarily or permanently, and restart halted processes.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
Manages system configuration information: the files that list the cell's
server encryption keys, database server machines, and users privileged to
issue commands from the \fBbos\fR and \fBvos\fR suites.
.PP
The \s-1BOS\s0 Server logs a default set of important events in the file
\fI/usr/afs/logs/BosLog\fR. To record the name of any user who performs a
privileged \fBbos\fR command (one that requires being listed in the
\fI/usr/afs/etc/UserList\fR file), add the \fB\-log\fR flag. To display the
contents of the \fBBosLog\fR file, use the \fBbos getlog\fR command.
.PP
The first time that the \s-1BOS\s0 Server initializes on a server machine, it
creates several files and subdirectories in the local \fI/usr/afs\fR
directory, and sets their mode bits to protect them from unauthorized
access. Each time it restarts, it checks that the mode bits still comply
with the settings listed in the following chart. A question mark indicates
that the \s-1BOS\s0 Server initially turns off the bit (sets it to the hyphen),
but does not check it at restart.
.PP
If the mode bits do not comply, the \s-1BOS\s0 Server writes the following
warning to the \fIBosLog\fR file:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   Bosserver reports inappropriate access on server directories
.Ve
However, the \s-1BOS\s0 Server does not reset the mode bits, so the administrator
can set them to alternate values if desired (with the understanding that
the warning message then appears at startup).
.PP
This command does not use the syntax conventions of the \s-1AFS\s0 command
suites. Provide the command name and all option names in full.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-noauth\fR" 4
Assigns the unprivileged identity \f(CWanonymous\fR to the issuer, which is
useful only when authorization checking is disabled on the server machine
(for instance, during the installation of a file server machine.)
.Ip "\fB\-log\fR" 4
Records in the \fI/usr/afs/logs/BosLog\fR file the names of all users who
successfully issue a privileged \fBbos\fR command (one that requires being
listed in the \fI/usr/afs/etc/UserList\fR file).
.Ip "\fB\-enable_peer_stats\fR" 4
Activates the collection of Rx statistics and allocates memory for their
storage. For each connection with a specific \s-1UDP\s0 port on another machine,
a separate record is kept for each type of \s-1RPC\s0 (FetchFile, GetStatus, and
so on) sent or received. To display or otherwise access the records, use
the Rx Monitoring \s-1API\s0.
.Ip "\fB\-enable_process_stats\fR" 4
Activates the collection of Rx statistics and allocates memory for their
storage. A separate record is kept for each type of \s-1RPC\s0 (FetchFile,
GetStatus, and so on) sent or received, aggregated over all connections to
other machines. To display or otherwise access the records, use the Rx
Monitoring \s-1API\s0.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following command initializes the BOS Server and logs the names of
users who issue privileged \fBbos\fR commands.
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   % bosserver -log &
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The issuer most be logged onto a file server machine as the local
superuser \f(CWroot\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIBosConfig(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIBosLog(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_create(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_exec(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_getlog(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_getrestart(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_restart(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_shutdown(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_start(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_startup(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_status(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_stop(8)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "bosserver 8"
.IX Name "bosserver - Initializes the BOS Server"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-noauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-log\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-enable_peer_stats\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-enable_process_stats\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

