.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH buserver 8 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
buserver \- Initializes the Backup Server
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBbuserver\fR <<\ [\fB\-database\fR\ <\fIdatabase\ directory\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-cellservdb\fR\ <\fIcell\ configuration\ directory\fR] >>> [\fB\-resetdb\fR]
    [\fB\-noauth\fR] [\fB\-smallht\fR] [\-servers <\fIlist of ubik database servers\fR>+]
    [\fB\-enable_peer_stats\fR]  [\-enable_process_stats] [\fB\-help\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBbuserver\fR command initializes the Backup Server, which runs on
database server machines and maintains the Backup Database. In the
conventional configuration, the binary file is located in the
\fI/usr/afs/bin\fR directory on a file server machine.
.PP
The \fBbuserver\fR command is not normally issued at the command shell
prompt, but rather placed into a database server machine's
\fI/usr/afs/local/BosConfig\fR file with the \fBbos create\fR command. If it is
ever issued at the command shell prompt, the issuer must be logged onto a
file server machine as the local superuser \f(CWroot\fR.
.PP
As it initializes, the Backup Server process creates the two files that
constitute the Backup Database, \fIbdb.DB0\fR and \fIbdb.DBSYS1\fR, in the
\fI/usr/afs/db\fR directory if they do not already exist. The Backup Database
houses information about volume sets and entries, the dump hierarchy, Tape
Coordinators, and previously performed dump sets. Use the commands in the
\fBbackup\fR suite to administer the database.
.PP
The Backup Server records a trace of its activity in the
\fI/usr/afs/logs/BackupLog\fR file. Use the \fBbos getlog\fR command to display
the contents of the file.
.PP
This command does not use the syntax conventions of the AFS command
suites. Provide the command name and all option names in full.
.SH "CAUTIONS"
The \fBbuserver\fR process reserves port 7021 for its use. Unexpected
behavior can occur if another process tries to reserve this port while the
\fBbuserver\fR process is running.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-database\fR <\fIdatabase directory\fR>" 4
Specifies the pathname of an alternate directory for the Backup Database
files, ending in a final slash (\f(CW/\fR). If this argument is not provided,
the default is the \fI/usr/afs/db\fR directory.
.Ip "\fB\-cellservdb\fR <\fIcell configuration directory\fR>" 4
Specifies the pathname of the directory from which the Backup Server reads
in an alternate version of the \fICellServDB\fR file. This argument is
mandatory for correct functioning when the Backup Server is running on a
subset of the cell's database server machines that is not a majority of
the machines listed in the standard \fI/usr/afs/etc/CellServDB\fR file (which
the Backup Server consults if this argument is not provided). It is not
appropriate in any other circumstances.
.Ip "\fB\-resetdb\fR" 4
Removes all of the information in the Backup Database files in the
\fI/usr/afs/db\fR directory, leaving zero-length versions of them.  The
backup operator must recreate the configuration entries in the database
(for volume sets, the dump hierarchy and so on) before performing backup
operations.
.Ip "\fB\-noauth\fR" 4
Establishes an unauthenticated connection between the issuer and the
Backup Server, in which the Backup Server treats the issuer as the
unprivileged user \f(CWanonymous\fR. It is useful only when authorization
checking is disabled on the database server machine. In normal
circumstances, the Backup Server allows only authorized (privileged) users
to issue commands that affect or contact the Backup Database, and refuses
to perform such an action even if the \fB\-noauth\fR flag is used.
.Ip "\fB\-smallht\fR" 4
Directs the Backup Server to use smaller internal hash tables for the
Backup Database, which reduces memory requirements but can make data
access take longer.
.Ip "\fB\-servers\fR <\fIlist of ubik database servers\fR>+" 4
Specifies the database server machines on which to start the Backup
Server. Use this argument if running the Backup Server on a subset of the
database server machines that is not a majority of the machines listed in
the \fI/usr/afs/etc/CellServDB\fR file.
.Ip "\fB\-enable_peer_stats\fR" 4
Activates the collection of Rx statistics and allocates memory for their
storage. For each connection with a specific \s-1UDP\s0 port on another machine,
a separate record is kept for each type of \s-1RPC\s0 (FetchFile, GetStatus, and
so on) sent or received. To display or otherwise access the records, use
the Rx Monitoring \s-1API\s0.
.Ip "\fB\-enable_process_stats\fR" 4
Activates the collection of Rx statistics and allocates memory for their
storage. A separate record is kept for each type of \s-1RPC\s0 (FetchFile,
GetStatus, and so on) sent or received, aggregated over all connections to
other machines. To display or otherwise access the records, use the Rx
Monitoring \s-1API\s0.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following example \fBbos create\fR command creates a \f(CWbuserver\fR process
on the file server machine \f(CWfs3.abc.com\fR. It appears here on two lines
only for legibility.
.PP
.Vb 2
\&   % bos create -server fs3.abc.com -instance buserver \e
\&                -type simple -cmd /usr/afs/bin/buserver
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The issuer must be logged in as the superuser \f(CWroot\fR on a file server
machine to issue the command at a command shell prompt. It is conventional
instead to create and start the process by issuing the \fBbos create\fR
command.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIBackupLog(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIBosConfig(5)\fR manpage,
the \fICellServDB(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIbdb.DB0(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIbackup(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_create(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_getlog(8)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "buserver 8"
.IX Name "buserver - Initializes the Backup Server"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "CAUTIONS"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-database\fR <\fIdatabase directory\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-cellservdb\fR <\fIcell configuration directory\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-resetdb\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-noauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-smallht\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-servers\fR <\fIlist of ubik database servers\fR>+"

.IX Item "\fB\-enable_peer_stats\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-enable_process_stats\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

