.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH fileserver 8 "OpenAFS" "15/May/2009" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
fileserver \- Initializes the File Server component of the fs process
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBfileserver\fR <<\ [\fB\-auditlog\fR\ <\fIpath\ to\ log\ file\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-d\fR\ <\fIdebug\ level\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-p\fR\ <\fInumber\ of\ processes\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-spare\fR\ <\fInumber\ of\ spare\ blocks\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-pctspare\fR\ <\fIpercentage\ spare\fR] >>> <<\ [\fB\-b\fR\ <\fIbuffers\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-l\fR\ <\fIlarge\ vnodes\fR] >>> <<\ [\fB\-s\fR\ <\fIsmall\ vnodes\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-vc\fR\ <\fIvolume\ cachesize\fR] >>> <<\ [\fB\-w\fR\ <\fIcall\ back\ wait\ interval\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-cb\fR\ <\fInumber\ of\ call\ backs\fR] >>> [\fB\-banner\fR] [\fB\-novbc\fR]
    <<\ [\fB\-implicit\fR\ <\fIadmin\ mode\ bits:\ rlidwka\fR] >>> [\fB\-readonly\fR]
    <<\ [\fB\-hr\fR\ <\fInumber\ of\ hours\ between\ refreshing\ the\ host\ cps\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-busyat\fR\ <\fI<\ redirect\ clients\ when\ queue\ \fR\ n\ >>] >>>
    [\fB\-nobusy\fR] <<\ [\fB\-rxpck\fR\ <\fInumber\ of\ rx\ extra\ packets\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-rxdbg\fR] [\fB\-rxdbge\fR] <<\ [\fB\-rxmaxmtu\fR\ <\fIbytes\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-allow-dotted-principals\fR] [\fB\-jumbo\fR] [\fB\-nojumbo\fR]
    <<\ [\fB\-rxbind\fR\ <\fIaddress\ to\ bind\ the\ Rx\ socket\ to\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-vattachpar\fR\ <\fInumber\ of\ volume\ attach\ threads\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-m\fR\ <\fImin\ percentage\ spare\ in\ partition\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-lock\fR] [\fB\-L\fR] [\fB\-S\fR] <<\ [\fB\-k\fR\ <\fIstack\ size\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-realm\fR\ <\fIKerberos\ realm\ name\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-udpsize\fR\ <\fIsize\ of\ socket\ buffer\ in\ bytes\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-sendsize\fR\ <\fIsize\ of\ send\ buffer\ in\ bytes\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-abortthreshold\fR\ <\fIabort\ threshold\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-enable_peer_stats\fR] [\fB\-enable_process_stats\fR] [\fB\-help\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBfileserver\fR command initializes the File Server component of the
\f(CWfs\fR process. In the conventional configuration, its binary file is
located in the \fI/usr/afs/bin\fR directory on a file server machine.
.PP
The \fBfileserver\fR command is not normally issued at the command shell
prompt, but rather placed into a database server machine's
\fI/usr/afs/local/BosConfig\fR file with the \fBbos create\fR command. If it is
ever issued at the command shell prompt, the issuer must be logged onto a
file server machine as the local superuser \f(CWroot\fR.
.PP
The File Server creates the \fI/usr/afs/logs/FileLog\fR log file as it
initializes, if the file does not already exist. It does not write a
detailed trace by default, but the \fB\-d\fR option may be used to
increase the amount of detail. Use the \fBbos getlog\fR command to
display the contents of the log file.
.PP
The command's arguments enable the administrator to control many aspects
of the File Server's performance, as detailed in the \fIOPTIONS\fR manpage.  By default
the \fBfileserver\fR command sets values for many arguments that are suitable
for a medium-sized file server machine. To set values suitable for a small
or large file server machine, use the \fB\-S\fR or \fB\-L\fR flag
respectively. The following list describes the parameters and
corresponding argument for which the \fBfileserver\fR command sets default
values, and the table below summarizes the setting for each of the three
machine sizes.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
The maximum number of lightweight processes (LWPs) the File Server uses to
handle requests for data; corresponds to the \fB\-p\fR argument. The File
Server always uses a minimum of 32 \s-1KB\s0 of memory for these processes.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
The maximum number of directory blocks the File Server caches in memory;
corresponds to the \fB\-b\fR argument. Each cached directory block (buffer)
consumes 2,092 bytes of memory.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
The maximum number of large vnodes the File Server caches in memory for
tracking directory elements; corresponds to the \fB\-l\fR argument. Each large
vnode consumes 292 bytes of memory.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
The maximum number of small vnodes the File Server caches in memory for
tracking file elements; corresponds to the \fB\-s\fR argument.  Each small
vnode consumes 100 bytes of memory.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
The maximum volume cache size, which determines how many volumes the File
Server can cache in memory before having to retrieve data from disk;
corresponds to the \fB\-vc\fR argument.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
The maximum number of callback structures the File Server caches in
memory; corresponds to the \fB\-cb\fR argument. Each callback structure
consumes 16 bytes of memory.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
The maximum number of Rx packets the File Server uses; corresponds to the
\fB\-rxpck\fR argument. Each packet consumes 1544 bytes of memory.
.PP
The default values are:
.PP
.Vb 9
\&  Parameter (Argument)               Small (-S)     Medium   Large (-L)
\&  ---------------------------------------------------------------------
\&  Number of LWPs (-p)                        6           9          128
\&  Number of cached dir blocks (-b)          70          90          120
\&  Number of cached large vnodes (-l)       200         400          600
\&  Number of cached small vnodes (-s)       200         400          600
\&  Maximum volume cache size (-vc)          200         400          600
\&  Number of callbacks (-cb)             20,000      60,000       64,000
\&  Number of Rx packets (-rxpck)            100         150          200
.Ve
To override any of the values, provide the indicated argument (which can
be combined with the \fB\-S\fR or \fB\-L\fR flag).
.PP
The amount of memory required for the File Server varies. The approximate
default memory usage is 751 \s-1KB\s0 when the \fB\-S\fR flag is used (small
configuration), 1.1 \s-1MB\s0 when all defaults are used (medium configuration),
and 1.4 \s-1MB\s0 when the \fB\-L\fR flag is used (large configuration). If
additional memory is available, increasing the value of the \fB\-cb\fR and
\fB\-vc\fR arguments can improve File Server performance most directly.
.PP
By default, the File Server allows a volume to exceed its quota by 1 \s-1MB\s0
when an application is writing data to an existing file in a volume that
is full. The File Server still does not allow users to create new files in
a full volume. To change the default, use one of the following arguments:
.Ip "\(bu" 4
Set the \fB\-spare\fR argument to the number of extra kilobytes that the File
Server allows as overage. A value of \f(CW0\fR allows no overage.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
Set the \fB\-pctspare\fR argument to the percentage of the volume's quota the
File Server allows as overage.
.PP
By default, the File Server implicitly grants the \f(CWa\fR (administer) and
\f(CWl\fR (lookup) permissions to system:administrators on the access control
list (\s-1ACL\s0) of every directory in the volumes stored on its file server
machine. In other words, the group's members can exercise those two
permissions even when an entry for the group does not appear on an \s-1ACL\s0. To
change the set of default permissions, use the \fB\-implicit\fR argument.
.PP
The File Server maintains a \fIhost current protection subgroup\fR (\fIhost
\s-1CPS\s0\fR) for each client machine from which it has received a data access
request. Like the \s-1CPS\s0 for a user, a host \s-1CPS\s0 lists all of the Protection
Database groups to which the machine belongs, and the File Server compares
the host \s-1CPS\s0 to a directory's \s-1ACL\s0 to determine in what manner users on the
machine are authorized to access the directory's contents. When the \fBpts
adduser\fR or \fBpts removeuser\fR command is used to change the groups to
which a machine belongs, the File Server must recompute the machine's host
\s-1CPS\s0 in order to notice the change. By default, the File Server contacts
the Protection Server every two hours to recompute host CPSs, implying
that it can take that long for changed group memberships to become
effective. To change this frequency, use the \fB\-hr\fR argument.
.PP
The File Server stores volumes in partitions. A partition is a
filesystem or directory on the server machine that is named \f(CW/vicepX\fR
or \f(CW/vicepXX\fR where \s-1XX\s0 is \*(L"a\*(R" through \*(L"z\*(R" or \*(L"aa\*(R" though \*(L"iv\*(R". Up to
255 partitions are allowed. The File Server expects that the /vicepXX
directories are each on a dedicated filesystem. The File Server will
only use a /vicepXX if it's a mountpoint for another filesystem,
unless the file \f(CW/vicepXX/AlwaysAttach\fR exists. The data in the
partition is a special format that can only be access using OpenAFS
commands or an OpenAFS client.
.PP
The File Server generates the following message when a partition is nearly
full:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   No space left on device
.Ve
This command does not use the syntax conventions of the \s-1AFS\s0 command
suites. Provide the command name and all option names in full.
.SH "CAUTIONS"
Do not use the \fB\-k\fR and \fB\-w\fR arguments, which are intended for use
by the OpenAFS developers only. Changing them from their default
values can result in unpredictable File Server behavior.  In any case,
on many operating systems the File Server uses native threads rather
than the LWP threads, so using the \fB\-k\fR argument to set the number of
LWP threads has no effect.
.PP
Do not specify both the \fB\-spare\fR and \fB\-pctspare\fR arguments. Doing so
causes the File Server to exit, leaving an error message in the
\fI/usr/afs/logs/FileLog\fR file.
.PP
Options that are available only on some system types, such as the \fB\-m\fR
and \fB\-lock\fR options, appear in the output generated by the \fB\-help\fR
option only on the relevant system type.
.PP
Currently, the maximum size of a volume is 2 terabytes (2^31 bytes)
and the maximum size of a /vicepX partition on a fileserver is 2^64
kilobytes. The maximum partition size in releases 1.4.7 and earlier is
2 terabytes (2^31 bytes). The maximum partition size for 1.5.x
releases 1.5.34 and earlier is 2 terabytes as well.
  
The maximum number of directory entries is 64,000 if all of the entries
have names that are 15 octets or less in length. A name that is 15 octets
long requires the use of only one block in the directory. Additional
sequential blocks are required to store entries with names that are longer
than 15 octets. Each additional block provides an additional length of 32
octets for the name of the entry. Note that if file names use an encoding
like UTF\-8, a single character may be encoded into multiple octets.
.PP
In real world use, the maximum number of objects in an AFS directory
is usually between 16,000 and 25,000, depending on the average name
length.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-auditlog\fR <\fIlog path\fR>" 4
Set and enable auditing.
.Ip "\fB\-d\fR <\fIdebug level\fR>" 4
Sets the detail level for the debugging trace written to the
\fI/usr/afs/logs/FileLog\fR file. Provide one of the following values, each
of which produces an increasingly detailed trace: \f(CW0\fR, \f(CW1\fR, \f(CW5\fR, \f(CW25\fR,
and \f(CW125\fR. The default value of \f(CW0\fR produces only a few messages.
.Ip "\fB\-p\fR <\fInumber of processes\fR>" 4
Sets the number of threads to run. Provide a positive integer. The File
Server creates and uses five threads for special purposes, in addition to
the number specified (but if this argument specifies the maximum possible
number, the File Server automatically uses five of the threads for its own
purposes).
.Sp
The maximum number of threads can differ in each release of OpenAFS.
Consult the \fIOpenAFS Release Notes\fR for the current release.
.Ip "\fB\-spare\fR <\fInumber of spare blocks\fR>" 4
Specifies the number of additional kilobytes an application can store in a
volume after the quota is exceeded. Provide a positive integer; a value of
\f(CW0\fR prevents the volume from ever exceeding its quota. Do not combine
this argument with the \fB\-pctspare\fR argument.
.Ip "\fB\-pctspare\fR <\fIpercentage spare\fR>" 4
Specifies the amount by which the File Server allows a volume to exceed
its quota, as a percentage of the quota. Provide an integer between \f(CW0\fR
and \f(CW99\fR. A value of \f(CW0\fR prevents the volume from ever exceeding its
quota. Do not combine this argument with the \fB\-spare\fR argument.
.Ip "\fB\-b\fR <\fIbuffers\fR>" 4
Sets the number of directory buffers. Provide a positive integer.
.Ip "\fB\-l\fR <\fIlarge vnodes\fR>" 4
Sets the number of large vnodes available in memory for caching directory
elements. Provide a positive integer.
.Ip "\fB\-s\fR <\fIsmall nodes\fR>" 4
Sets the number of small vnodes available in memory for caching file
elements. Provide a positive integer.
.Ip "\fB\-vc\fR <\fIvolume cachesize\fR>" 4
Sets the number of volumes the File Server can cache in memory.  Provide a
positive integer.
.Ip "\fB\-w\fR <\fIcall back wait interval\fR>" 4
Sets the interval at which the daemon spawned by the File Server performs
its maintenance tasks. Do not use this argument; changing the default
value can cause unpredictable behavior.
.Ip "\fB\-cb\fR <\fInumber of callbacks\fR>" 4
Sets the number of callbacks the File Server can track. Provide a positive
integer.
.Ip "\fB\-banner\fR" 4
Prints the following banner to \fI/dev/console\fR about every 10 minutes.
.Sp
.Vb 1
\&   File Server is running at I<time>.
.Ve
.Ip "\fB\-novbc\fR" 4
Prevents the File Server from breaking the callbacks that Cache Managers
hold on a volume that the File Server is reattaching after the volume was
offline (as a result of the \fBvos restore\fR command, for example). Use of
this flag is strongly discouraged.
.Ip "\fB\-implicit\fR <\fIadmin mode bits\fR>" 4
Defines the set of permissions granted by default to the
system:administrators group on the \s-1ACL\s0 of every directory in a volume
stored on the file server machine. Provide one or more of the standard
permission letters (\f(CWrlidwka\fR) and auxiliary permission letters
(\f(CWABCDEFGH\fR), or one of the shorthand notations for groups of permissions
(\f(CWall\fR, \f(CWnone\fR, \f(CWread\fR, and \f(CWwrite\fR). To review the meaning of the
permissions, see the \fBfs setacl\fR reference page.
.Ip "\fB\-hr\fR <\fInumber of hours between refreshing the host cps\fR>" 4
Specifies how often the File Server refreshes its knowledge of the
machines that belong to protection groups (refreshes the host CPSs for
machines). The File Server must update this information to enable users
from machines recently added to protection groups to access data for which
those machines now have the necessary \s-1ACL\s0 permissions.
.Ip "\fB\-busyat\fR <\fI< redirect clients when queue \fR n >>>" 4
Defines the number of incoming RPCs that can be waiting for a response
from the File Server before the File Server returns the error code
\f(CWVBUSY\fR to the Cache Manager that sent the latest \s-1RPC\s0. In response, the
Cache Manager retransmits the \s-1RPC\s0 after a delay. This argument prevents
the accumulation of so many waiting RPCs that the File Server can never
process them all. Provide a positive integer.  The default value is
\f(CW600\fR.
.Ip "\fB\-rxpck\fR <\fInumber of rx extra packets\fR>" 4
Controls the number of Rx packets the File Server uses to store data for
incoming RPCs that it is currently handling, that are waiting for a
response, and for replies that are not yet complete. Provide a positive
integer.
.Ip "\fB\-rxdbg\fR" 4
Writes a trace of the File Server's operations on Rx packets to the file
\fI/usr/afs/logs/rx_dbg\fR.
.Ip "\fI\-rxdbge\fR" 4
Writes a trace of the File Server's operations on Rx events (such as
retransmissions) to the file \fI/usr/afs/logs/rx_dbg\fR.
.Ip "\fB\-allow-dotted-principals\fR" 4
By default, the \s-1RXKAD\s0 security layer will disallow access by Kerberos
principals with a dot in the first component of their name. This is to avoid
the confusion where principals user/admin and user.admin are both mapped to the
user.admin \s-1PTS\s0 entry. Sites whose Kerberos realms don't have these collisions 
between principal names may disabled this check by starting the server
with this option.
.Ip "\fI\-m\fR <\fImin percentage spare in partition\fR>" 4
Specifies the percentage of each \s-1AFS\s0 server partition that the \s-1AIX\s0 version
of the File Server creates as a reserve. Specify an integer value between
\f(CW0\fR and \f(CW30\fR; the default is 8%. A value of \f(CW0\fR means that the
partition can become completely full, which can have serious negative
consequences.
.Ip "\fB\-lock\fR" 4
Prevents any portion of the fileserver binary from being paged (swapped)
out of memory on a file server machine running the \s-1IRIX\s0 operating system.
.Ip "\fB\-L\fR" 4
Sets values for many arguments in a manner suitable for a large file
server machine. Combine this flag with any option except the \fB\-S\fR flag;
omit both flags to set values suitable for a medium-sized file server
machine.
.Ip "\fB\-S\fR" 4
Sets values for many arguments in a manner suitable for a small file
server machine. Combine this flag with any option except the \fB\-L\fR flag;
omit both flags to set values suitable for a medium-sized file server
machine.
.Ip "\fB\-k\fR <\fIstack size\fR>" 4
Sets the \s-1LWP\s0 stack size in units of 1 kilobyte. Do not use this argument,
and in particular do not specify a value less than the default of \f(CW24\fR.
.Ip "\fB\-realm\fR <\fIKerberos realm name\fR>" 4
Defines the Kerberos realm name for the File Server to use. If this
argument is not provided, it uses the realm name corresponding to the cell
listed in the local \fI/usr/afs/etc/ThisCell\fR file.
.Ip "\fB\-udpsize\fR <\fIsize of socket buffer in bytes\fR>" 4
Sets the size of the \s-1UDP\s0 buffer, which is 64 \s-1KB\s0 by default. Provide a
positive integer, preferably larger than the default.
.Ip "\fB\-jumbo\fR" 4
Allows the server to send and receive jumbograms. A jumbogram is
a large-size packet composed of 2 to 4 normal Rx data packets that share
the same header. The fileserver does not use jumbograms by default, as some
routers are not capable of properly breaking the jumbogram into smaller
packets and reassembling them.
.Ip "\fB\-nojumbo\fR    Deprecated; jumbograms are disabled by default." 4
.Ip "\fB\-enable_peer_stats\fR" 4
Activates the collection of Rx statistics and allocates memory for their
storage. For each connection with a specific \s-1UDP\s0 port on another machine,
a separate record is kept for each type of \s-1RPC\s0 (FetchFile, GetStatus, and
so on) sent or received. To display or otherwise access the records, use
the Rx Monitoring \s-1API\s0.
.Ip "\fB\-enable_process_stats\fR" 4
Activates the collection of Rx statistics and allocates memory for their
storage. A separate record is kept for each type of \s-1RPC\s0 (FetchFile,
GetStatus, and so on) sent or received, aggregated over all connections to
other machines. To display or otherwise access the records, use the Rx
Monitoring \s-1API\s0.
.Ip "\fB\-abortthreshold\fR <\fIabort threshold\fR>" 4
Sets the abort threshold, which is triggered when an \s-1AFS\s0 client sends
a number of FetchStatus requests in a row and all of them fail due to
access control or some other error. When the abort threshold is
reached, the file server starts to slow down the responses to the
problem client in order to reduce the load on the file server.
.Sp
The throttling behaviour can cause issues especially for some versions
of the Windows OpenAFS client. When using Windows Explorer to navigate
the \s-1AFS\s0 directory tree, directories with only \*(L"look\*(R" access for the
current user may load more slowly because of the throttling. This is
because the Windows OpenAFS client sends FetchStatus calls one at a
time instead of in bulk like the Unix Open \s-1AFS\s0 client.
.Sp
Setting the threshold to 0 disables the throttling behavior. This
option is available in OpenAFS versions 1.4.1 and later.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following \fBbos create\fR command creates an fs process on the file
server machine \f(CWfs2.abc.com\fR that uses the large configuration size, and
allows volumes to exceed their quota by 10%. Type the command on a single
line:
.PP
.Vb 3
\&   % bos create -server fs2.abc.com -instance fs -type fs \e
\&                -cmd "/usr/afs/bin/fileserver -pctspare 10 \e
\&                -L" /usr/afs/bin/volserver /usr/afs/bin/salvager
.Ve
.SH "TROUBLESHOOTING"
Sending process signals to the File Server Process can change its
behavior in the following ways:
.PP
.Vb 2
\&  Process          Signal       OS     Result
\&  ---------------------------------------------------------------------
.Ve
.Vb 2
\&  File Server      XCPU        Unix    Prints a list of client IP
\&                                       Addresses.
.Ve
.Vb 2
\&  File Server      USR2      Windows   Prints a list of client IP
\&                                       Addresses.
.Ve
.Vb 2
\&  File Server      POLL        HPUX    Prints a list of client IP
\&                                       Addresses.
.Ve
.Vb 4
\&  Any server       TSTP        Any     Increases Debug level by a power
\&                                       of 5 -- 1,5,25,125, etc.
\&                                       This has the same effect as the
\&                                       -d XXX command-line option.
.Ve
.Vb 1
\&  Any Server       HUP         Any     Resets Debug level to 0
.Ve
.Vb 2
\&  File Server      TERM        Any     Run minor instrumentation over
\&                                       the list of descriptors.
.Ve
.Vb 1
\&  Other Servers    TERM        Any     Causes the process to quit.
.Ve
.Vb 2
\&  File Server      QUIT        Any     Causes the File Server to Quit.
\&                                       Bos Server knows this.
.Ve
The basic metric of whether an AFS file server is doing well is the number
of connections waiting for a thread,
which can be found by running the following command:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   % rxdebug <server> | grep waiting_for | wc -l
.Ve
Each line returned by \f(CWrxdebug\fR that contains the text \*(L"waiting_for\*(R"
represents a connection that's waiting for a file server thread.
.PP
If the blocked connection count is ever above 0, the server is having
problems replying to clients in a timely fashion.  If it gets above 10,
roughly, there will be noticable slowness by the user.  The total number of
connections is a mostly irrelevant number that goes essentially
monotonically for as long as the server has been running and then goes back
down to zero when it's restarted.
.PP
The most common cause of blocked connections rising on a server is some
process somewhere performing an abnormal number of accesses to that server
and its volumes.  If multiple servers have a blocked connection count, the
most likely explanation is that there is a volume replicated between those
servers that is absorbing an abnormally high access rate.
.PP
To get an access count on all the volumes on a server, run:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   % vos listvol <server> -long
.Ve
and save the output in a file.  The results will look like a bunch of \fBvos
examine\fR output for each volume on the server.  Look for lines like:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   40065 accesses in the past day (i.e., vnode references)
.Ve
and look for volumes with an abnormally high number of accesses.  Anything
over 10,000 is fairly high, but some volumes like root.cell and other
volumes close to the root of the cell will have that many hits routinely.
Anything over 100,000 is generally abnormally high.  The count resets about
once a day.
.PP
Another approach that can be used to narrow the possibilities for a
replicated volume, when multiple servers are having trouble, is to find all
replicated volumes for that server.  Run:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   % vos listvldb -server <server>
.Ve
where <server> is one of the servers having problems to refresh the VLDB
cache, and then run:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   % vos listvldb -server <server> -part <partition>
.Ve
to get a list of all volumes on that server and partition, including every
other server with replicas.
.PP
Once the volume causing the problem has been identified, the best way to
deal with the problem is to move that volume to another server with a low
load or to stop any runaway programs that are accessing that volume
unnecessarily.  Often the volume will be enough information to tell what's
going on.
.PP
If you still need additional information about who's hitting that server,
sometimes you can guess at that information from the failed callbacks in the
\fIFileLog\fR log in \fI/var/log/afs\fR on the server, or from the output of:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   % /usr/afsws/etc/rxdebug <server> -rxstats
.Ve
but the best way is to turn on debugging output from the file server.
(Warning: This generates a lot of output into FileLog on the AFS server.)
To do this, log on to the AFS server, find the PID of the fileserver
process, and do:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&    kill -TSTP <pid>
.Ve
where <pid> is the PID of the file server process.  This will raise the
debugging level so that you'll start seeing what people are actually doing
on the server.  You can do this up to three more times to get even more
output if needed.  To reset the debugging level back to normal, use (The
following command will NOT terminate the file server):
.PP
.Vb 1
\&    kill -HUP <pid>
.Ve
The debugging setting on the File Server should be reset back to normal when
debugging is no longer needed.  Otherwise, the AFS server may well fill its
disks with debugging output.
.PP
The lines of the debugging output that are most useful for debugging load
problems are:
.PP
.Vb 2
\&    SAFS_FetchStatus,  Fid = 2003828163.77154.82248, Host 171.64.15.76
\&    SRXAFS_FetchData, Fid = 2003828163.77154.82248
.Ve
(The example above is partly truncated to highlight the interesting
information).  The Fid identifies the volume and inode within the volume;
the volume is the first long number.  So, for example, this was:
.PP
.Vb 8
\&   % vos examine 2003828163
\&   pubsw.matlab61                   2003828163 RW    1040060 K  On-line
\&       afssvr5.Stanford.EDU /vicepa 
\&       RWrite 2003828163 ROnly 2003828164 Backup 2003828165 
\&       MaxQuota    3000000 K 
\&       Creation    Mon Aug  6 16:40:55 2001
\&       Last Update Tue Jul 30 19:00:25 2002
\&       86181 accesses in the past day (i.e., vnode references)
.Ve
.Vb 5
\&       RWrite: 2003828163    ROnly: 2003828164    Backup: 2003828165
\&       number of sites -> 3
\&          server afssvr5.Stanford.EDU partition /vicepa RW Site 
\&          server afssvr11.Stanford.EDU partition /vicepd RO Site 
\&          server afssvr5.Stanford.EDU partition /vicepa RO Site 
.Ve
and from the Host information one can tell what system is accessing that
volume.
.PP
Note that the output of the \fIvos_examine(1)\fR manpage also includes the access count, so
once the problem has been identified, vos examine can be used to see if the
access count is still increasing.  Also remember that you can run vos
examine on the read-only replica (e.g., pubsw.matlab61.readonly) to see the
access counts on the read-only replica on all of the servers that it's
located on.
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The issuer must be logged in as the superuser \f(CWroot\fR on a file server
machine to issue the command at a command shell prompt.  It is conventional
instead to create and start the process by issuing the \fBbos create\fR
command.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIBosConfig(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIFileLog(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_create(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_getlog(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIfs_setacl(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIsalvager(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIvolserver(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIvos_examine(1)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "fileserver 8"
.IX Name "fileserver - Initializes the File Server component of the fs process"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Header "CAUTIONS"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-auditlog\fR <\fIlog path\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-d\fR <\fIdebug level\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-p\fR <\fInumber of processes\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-spare\fR <\fInumber of spare blocks\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-pctspare\fR <\fIpercentage spare\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-b\fR <\fIbuffers\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-l\fR <\fIlarge vnodes\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-s\fR <\fIsmall nodes\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-vc\fR <\fIvolume cachesize\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-w\fR <\fIcall back wait interval\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-cb\fR <\fInumber of callbacks\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-banner\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-novbc\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-implicit\fR <\fIadmin mode bits\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-hr\fR <\fInumber of hours between refreshing the host cps\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-busyat\fR <\fI< redirect clients when queue \fR n >>>"

.IX Item "\fB\-rxpck\fR <\fInumber of rx extra packets\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-rxdbg\fR"

.IX Item "\fI\-rxdbge\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-allow-dotted-principals\fR"

.IX Item "\fI\-m\fR <\fImin percentage spare in partition\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-lock\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-L\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-S\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-k\fR <\fIstack size\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-realm\fR <\fIKerberos realm name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-udpsize\fR <\fIsize of socket buffer in bytes\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-jumbo\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-nojumbo\fR    Deprecated; jumbograms are disabled by default."

.IX Item "\fB\-enable_peer_stats\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-enable_process_stats\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-abortthreshold\fR <\fIabort threshold\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "TROUBLESHOOTING"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

