.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH fstrace_lslog 8 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
fstrace lslog \- Displays information about a log
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBfstrace lslog\fR <<\ [\fB\-set\fR\ <\fIset\ name\fR+] >>> <<\ [\fB\-log\fR\ <\fIlog\ name\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-long\fR] [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBfstrace lsl\fR <<\ [\fB\-s\fR\ <\fIset\ name\fR+] >>> <<\ [\fB\-log\fR\ <\fIlog\ name\fR] >>> [\fB\-lon\fR]
    [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBfstrace lslog\fR command reports whether the \f(CWcmfx\fR log is available
for use. If the \fB\-long\fR argument is included, the output reports the
log's defined size, and whether that amount of space is currently
allocated in kernel memory or not.
.PP
To change the \f(CWcmfx\fR trace log's size, use the \fBfstrace setlog\fR
command. To display or set whether space is allocated for it in kernel
memory, use the \fBfstrace lsset\fR or \fBfstrace setset\fR command to display
or set the state of the corresponding \f(CWcm\fR event set, respectively.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-set\fR <\fIset name\fR>+" 4
Names the event set for which to display information about the
corresponding trace log. The only acceptable value is \f(CWcm\fR (for which the
associated trace log is \f(CWcmfx\fR). Provide either this argument or the
\fB\-log\fR argument, or omit both to display information about the \f(CWcmfx\fR
log by default.
.Ip "\fB\-log\fR <\fIlog name\fR>" 4
Names the trace log about which to report. The only acceptable value is
\f(CWcmfx\fR. Provide either this argument or the \fB\-set\fR argument, or omit
both to report on the \f(CWcmfx\fR log by default.
.Ip "\fB\-long\fR" 4
Reports the defined size of the log in kilobyte units and whether that
amount of space is currently allocated in kernel memory.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "OUTPUT"
By default, the \fBfstrace lslog\fR command displays only the name of the
available log, \f(CWcmfx\fR, in the following format:
.PP
.Vb 2
\&   Available logs:
\&   cmfx
.Ve
When the \fB\-long\fR flag is included, the output also reports the defined
size of the log in kilobytes, and whether or not that amount of space is
currently allocated in kernel memory, in the following format:
.PP
.Vb 2
\&   Available logs:
\&   cmfx : <log_size> kbytes (allocated | unallocated)
.Ve
The \f(CWallocated\fR state indicates that the indicated number of kilobytes is
reserved for the \f(CWcmfx\fR trace log in kernel memory. The \f(CWcm\fR event set's
state is either \f(CWactive\fR or \f(CWinactive\fR, as reported by the \fBfstrace
lsset\fR command, and set by the \fBfstrace setset\fR command's \fB\-active\fR or
\fB\-inactive\fR flags respectively.
.PP
The \f(CWunallocated\fR state indicates that no kernel memory is currently
reserved for the \f(CWcmfx\fR trace log. The \fBcm\fR event set's state is
\f(CWdormant\fR, as reported by the \fBfstrace lsset\fR command and set by the
\fBfstrace setset\fR command's \fB\-dormant\fR flag. If the event set's state is
later changed to active or inactive, the number of kilobytes indicated as
<log_size> are again allocated in kernel memory.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following example uses the \-long flag to display information
about the \f(CWcmfx\fR log:
.PP
.Vb 3
\&   # fstrace lslog -log cmfx -long
\&   Available logs:
\&   cmfx : 60 kbytes (allocated)
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The issuer must be logged in as the local superuser \f(CWroot\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIfstrace(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIfstrace_lsset(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIfstrace_setlog(8)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "fstrace_lslog 8"
.IX Name "fstrace lslog - Displays information about a log"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-set\fR <\fIset name\fR>+"

.IX Item "\fB\-log\fR <\fIlog name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-long\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "OUTPUT"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

