.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH kas_unlock 8 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
kas unlock \- Unlocks a locked user account
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBkas unlock\fR <<\ \fB\-name\fR\ <\fIauthentication\ ID\fR >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-admin_username\fR\ <\fIadmin\ principal\ to\ use\ for\ authentication\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-password_for_admin\fR\ <\fIadmin\ password\fR] >>> <<\ [\fB\-cell\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-servers\fR\ <\fIexplicit\ list\ of\ authentication\ servers\fR+] >>>
    [\fB\-noauth\fR] [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBkas u\fR <<\ \fB\-na\fR\ <\fIauthentication\ ID\fR >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-a\fR\ <\fIadmin\ principal\ to\ use\ for\ authentication\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-p\fR\ <\fIadmin\ password\fR] >>> <<\ [\fB\-c\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-s\fR\ <\fIexplicit\ list\ of\ authentication\ servers\fR+] >>> [\fB\-no\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBkas unlock\fR command unlocks the Authentication Database entry named
by the \fB\-name\fR argument. An entry becomes locked when the user exceeds
the limit on failed authentication attempts, generally by providing the
wrong password to either an AFS\-modified login utility or the \fBklog\fR
command. Use the \fBkas setfields\fR command to set the limit and the lockout
time, and the \fBkas examine\fR command to examine the settings.
.PP
To unlock all locked user accounts at once, shutdown the \fBkaserver\fR
process on every database server machine, and remove the
\fI/usr/afs/local/kaauxdb\fR file from each one. The \fBkaserver\fR process
recreates the file as it restarts.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-name\fR <\fIauthentication \s-1ID\s0\fR>" 4
Names the Authentication Database entry to unlock.
.Ip "\fB\-admin_username\fR <\fIadmin principal\fR>" 4
Specifies the user identity under which to authenticate with the
Authentication Server for execution of the command. For more details, see
the \fIkas(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-password_for_admin\fR <\fIadmin password\fR>" 4
Specifies the password of the command's issuer. If it is omitted (as
recommended), the \fBkas\fR command interpreter prompts for it and does not
echo it visibly. For more details, see the \fIkas(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>" 4
Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
the \fIkas(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-servers\fR <\fIauthentication servers\fR>+" 4
Names each machine running an Authentication Server with which to
establish a connection. For more details, see the \fIkas(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-noauth\fR" 4
Assigns the unprivileged identity \f(CWanonymous\fR to the issuer. For more
details, see the \fIkas(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
In the following example, an administrator using the \f(CWadmin\fR account
unlocks the entry for \f(CWjones\fR:
.PP
.Vb 2
\&   % kas unlock -name jones -admin_username admin
\&   Administrator's (admin) Password:
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The issuer must have the \f(CWADMIN\fR flag set on his or her Authentication
Database entry.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIkas(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIkas_examine(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIkas_setfields(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIklog(1)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "kas_unlock 8"
.IX Name "kas unlock - Unlocks a locked user account"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-name\fR <\fIauthentication \s-1ID\s0\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-admin_username\fR <\fIadmin principal\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-password_for_admin\fR <\fIadmin password\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-servers\fR <\fIauthentication servers\fR>+"

.IX Item "\fB\-noauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

