.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH kas_interactive 8 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
kas interactive \- Enters interactive mode
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBkas interactive\fR
    <<\ [\fB\-admin_username\fR\ <\fIadmin\ principal\ to\ use\ for\ authentication\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-password_for_admin\fR\ <\fIadmin\ password\fR] >>> <<\ [\fB\-cell\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-servers\fR\ <\fIexplicit\ list\ of\ authentication\ servers\fR+] >>>
    [\fB\-noauth\fR] [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBkas i\fR <<\ [\fB\-a\fR\ <\fIadmin\ principal\ to\ use\ for\ authentication\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-p\fR\ <\fIadmin\ password\fR] >>> <<\ [\fB\-c\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-s\fR\ <\fIexplicit\ list\ of\ authentication\ servers\fR+] >>> [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBkas interactive\fR command establishes an interactive session for the
issuer of the command. By default, the command interpreter establishes an
authenticated connection for the user logged into the local file system
with all of the Authentication Servers listed in the local
\fI/usr/vice/etc/CellServDB\fR file for the cell named in the local
\fI/usr/vice/etc/ThisCell\fR file. To specify an alternate identity, cell
name, or list of Authentication Servers, include the \fB\-admin_username\fR,
\fB\-cell\fR, or \fB\-servers\fR arguments respectively. Interactive mode lasts
for six hours unless the maximum ticket lifetime for the issuer or the
Authentication Server's Ticket Granting Service is shorter.
.PP
There are two other ways to enter interactive mode, in addition to the
\fBkas interactive\fR command:
.Ip "\(bu" 4
Type the kas command at the shell prompt without any operation code. If
appropriate, include one or more of the \fB\-admin_username\fR,
\fB\-password_for_admin\fR, \fB\-cell\fR, and \fB\-servers\fR arguments.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
Type the kas command followed by a user name and cell name, separated by
an \f(CW@\fR sign (for example: \fBkas admin@abc.com\fR), to establish a
connection under the specified identity with the Authentication Servers
listed in the local \fI/usr/vice/etc/CellServDB\fR file for the indicated
cell. If appropriate, provide the \fB\-servers\fR argument to specify an
alternate list of Authentication Server machines that belong to the
indicated cell.
.PP
There are several consequences of entering interactive mode:
.Ip "\(bu" 4
The \f(CW< ka\fR >> prompt replaces the system (shell) prompt. When typing
commands at this prompt, provide only the operation code (omit the command
suite name, \fBkas\fR).
.Ip "\(bu" 4
The command interpreter does not prompt for the issuer's password.
.Sp
The issuer's identity and password, the relevant cell, and the set of
Authentication Server machines specified when entering interactive mode
apply to all commands issued during the session. They cannot be changed
without leaving the session, except by using the \fBkas noauthentication\fR
command to replace the current authenticated connections with
unauthenticated ones. The \fB\-admin_username\fR, \fB\-password_for_admin\fR,
\fB\-cell\fR, and \fB\-servers\fR arguments are ignored if provided on a command
issued during interactive mode.
.PP
To establish an unauthenticated connection to the Authentication Server,
include the \fB\-noauth\fR flag or provide an incorrect password.  Unless
authorization checking is disabled on each Authentication Server machine
involved, however, it is not possible to perform any privileged operations
within such a session.
.PP
To end the current authenticated connection and establish an
unauthenticated one, issue the \fBkas noauthentication\fR command. To leave
interactive mode and return to the regular shell prompt, issue the \fBkas
quit\fR command.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-admin_username\fR <\fIadmin principal\fR>" 4
Specifies the user identity under which to authenticate with the
Authentication Server for execution of the command. For more details, see
the \fIkas(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-password_for_admin\fR <\fIadmin password\fR>" 4
Specifies the password of the command's issuer. If it is omitted (as
recommended), the \fBkas\fR command interpreter prompts for it and does not
echo it visibly. For more details, see the \fIkas(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>" 4
Names the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
the \fIkas(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-servers\fR <\fIauthentication servers\fR>+" 4
Names each machine running an Authentication Server with which to
establish a connection. For more details, see the \fIkas(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-noauth\fR" 4
Assigns the unprivileged identity \f(CWanonymous\fR to the issuer. For more
details, see the \fIkas(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following example shows a user entering interactive mode as the
privileged user \f(CWadmin\fR.
.PP
.Vb 3
\&   % kas interactive admin
\&   Password for admin: I<admin_password>
\&   ka>
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
None
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIkas(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIkas_noauthentication(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIkas_quit(8)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "kas_interactive 8"
.IX Name "kas interactive - Enters interactive mode"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-admin_username\fR <\fIadmin principal\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-password_for_admin\fR <\fIadmin password\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-servers\fR <\fIauthentication servers\fR>+"

.IX Item "\fB\-noauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

