.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH kaserver 8 "OpenAFS" "5/Jan/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
kaserver \- Initializes the Authentication Server
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBkaserver\fR [\fB\-noAuth\fR] [\fB\-fastKeys\fR] [\fB\-database\fR <\fIdbpath\fR>]
    [\fB\-localfiles\fR <\fIlclpath\fR>] [\fB\-minhours\fR <\fIn\fR>]
    [\fB\-servers\fR <\fIserverlist\fR>] [\fB\-enable_peer_stats\fR]
    [\fB\-enable_process_stats\fR] [\fB\-help\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBkaserver\fR command initializes the Authentication Server, which runs
on every database server machine. In the conventional configuration, its
binary file is located in the \fI/usr/afs/bin\fR directory on a file server
machine.
.PP
The \fBkaserver\fR command is not normally issued at the command shell prompt
but rather placed into a file server machine's \fI/usr/afs/local/BosConfig\fR
file with the \fBbos create\fR command. If it is ever issued at the command
shell prompt, the issuer must be logged onto a database server machine as
the local superuser \f(CWroot\fR.
.PP
As it initializes, the Authentication Server process creates the two files
that constitute the Authentication Database, \fIkaserver.DB0\fR and
\fIkaserver.DBSYS1\fR, in the \fI/usr/afs/db\fR directory if they do not already
exist. Use the commands in the \fBkas\fR suite to administer the database.
.PP
The Authentication Server is responsible for several aspects of AFS
security, including:
.Ip "\(bu" 4
Maintenance of all \s-1AFS\s0 server encryption keys and user passwords in the
Authentication Database.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
Creation of the tickets and tokens that users and servers use to establish
secure connections. Its Ticket Granting Service (\s-1TGS\s0) component performs
this function.
.PP
The Authentication Server records a trace of its activity in the
\fI/usr/afs/logs/AuthLog\fR file. Use the \fBbos getlog\fR command to display
the contents of the file. Use the \fBkdb\fR command to read the protected
files associated with the \fIAuthLog\fR file, \fIAuthLog.dir\fR and
\fIAuthLog.pag\fR.
.PP
This command does not use the syntax conventions of the \s-1AFS\s0 command
suites. Provide the command name and all option names in full.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-noAuth\fR" 4
Assigns the unprivileged identity \f(CWanonymous\fR to the issuer. Thus, it
establishes an unauthenticated connection between the issuer and the
Authentication Server. It is useful only when authorization checking is
disabled on the database server machine. In normal circumstances, the
Authentication Server allows only authorized (privileged) users to issue
commands that affect or contact the Authentication Database and will
refuse to perform such an action even if the \fB\-noAuth\fR flag is used.
.Ip "\fB\-fastKeys\fR" 4
Is a test flag for use by the \s-1AFS\s0 Development staff; it serves no
functional purpose.
.Ip "\fB\-database\fR <\fIdbpath\fR>" 4
Specifies the pathname of an alternate directory in which the
Authentication Database files reside. Provide the complete pathname,
ending in the base filename to which the \f(CW.DB0\fR and \f(CW.DBSYS1\fR extensions
are appended. For example, the appropriate value for the default database
files is \fI/usr/afs/db/kaserver\fR.
.Sp
Provide the \fB\-localfiles\fR argument along with this one; otherwise, the
\fB\-localfiles\fR argument is also set to the value of this argument, which
is probably inappropriate.
.Ip "\fB\-localfiles\fR <\fIlclpath\fR>" 4
Specifies the pathname of an alternate directory in which the auxiliary
Authentication Database file resides. Provide the complete pathname,
ending in the base filename to which the \f(CWauxdb\fR suffix is appended. For
example, the appropriate value for the default auxiliary database file is
\fI/usr/afs/local/kaserver\fR.
.Ip "\fB\-minhours\fR <\fIn\fR>" 4
Specifies the minimum number of hours that must pass between password
changes made by any regular user. System administrators (with the \f(CWADMIN\fR
flag in their Authentication Database entry) can change passwords as often
as desired. Setting a minimum time between password changes is not
recommended.
.Ip "\fB\-servers\fR <\fIauthentication servers\fR>+" 4
Names each database server machine running an Authentication Server with
which the local Authentication Server is to synchronize its copy of the
Authentication Database, rather than with the machines listed in the local
\fI/usr/afs/etc/CellServDB\fR file.
.Ip "\fB\-enable_peer_stats\fR" 4
Activates the collection of Rx statistics and allocates memory for their
storage. For each connection with a specific \s-1UDP\s0 port on another machine,
a separate record is kept for each type of \s-1RPC\s0 (FetchFile, GetStatus, and
so on) sent or received. To display or otherwise access the records, use
the Rx Monitoring \s-1API\s0.
.Ip "\fB\-enable_process_stats\fR" 4
Activates the collection of Rx statistics and allocates memory for their
storage. A separate record is kept for each type of \s-1RPC\s0 (FetchFile,
GetStatus, and so on) sent or received, aggregated over all connections to
other machines. To display or otherwise access the records, use the Rx
Monitoring \s-1API\s0.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following \fBbos create\fR command creates a \f(CWkaserver\fR process on
\f(CWfs3.abc.com\fR (the command appears on two lines here only for
legibility):
.PP
.Vb 2
\&   % bos create -server fs3.abc.com -instance kaserver \e
\&                -type simple -cmd /usr/afs/bin/kaserver
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The issuer must be logged in as the superuser \f(CWroot\fR on a file server
machine to issue the command at a command shell prompt. It is conventional
instead to create and start the process by issuing the \fBbos create\fR
command.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIAuthLog(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIBosConfig(5)\fR manpage,
the \fICellServDB(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIkaserver.DB0(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIkaserverauxdb(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_create(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_getlog(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIkas(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIkdb(8)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "kaserver 8"
.IX Name "kaserver - Initializes the Authentication Server"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-noAuth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-fastKeys\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-database\fR <\fIdbpath\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-localfiles\fR <\fIlclpath\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-minhours\fR <\fIn\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-servers\fR <\fIauthentication servers\fR>+"

.IX Item "\fB\-enable_peer_stats\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-enable_process_stats\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

