.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH kdb 8 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
kdb \- Displays log or privileged actions performed by the Authentication Server
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBkdb\fR <<\ [\fB\-dbmfile\fR\ <\fIdbmfile\ to\ use\ (default\ /usr/afs/logs/AuthLog)\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-key\fR\ <\fIextract\ entries\ that\ match\ specified\ key\fR] >>> [\fB\-help\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBkdb\fR command displays the contents of the \fIAuthLog.dir\fR and
\fIAuthLog.pag\fR files associated with the \fIAuthLog\fR file that resides on
the local disk, by default in the \fI/usr/afs/logs\fR directory. The files
must exist in that directory, which normally implies that the
Authentication Server is running on the machine. The files contain
information on privileged actions performed by the Authentication Server.
.SH "CAUTIONS"
It is possible that on some operating systems that AFS otherwise supports,
the Authentication Server cannot create the \fI/usr/afs/logs/AuthLog.dir\fR
and \fI/usr/afs/logs/AuthLog.pag\fR files, making this command
inoperative. See the \fIIBM AFS Release Notes\fR for details.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-dbmfile\fR <\fIdbmfile to use\fR>" 4
Specifies the pathname of the file to display. Provide either a complete
pathname, a pathname relative to the \fI/usr/afs/logs\fR directory, or a
filename only, in which case the file must reside in the \fI/usr/afs/logs\fR
directory. Omit this argument to display information from the
\fIAuthLog.dir\fR and \fIAuthLog.pag\fR files in the \fI/usr/afs/logs\fR directory.
.Ip "\fB\-key\fR <\fIextract entries that match specified key\fR>" 4
Specifies each entry to be displayed from the indicated file.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "OUTPUT"
The first line of output indicates the location of the files from which
the subsequent information is derived:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   Printing all entries found in <file_location>
.Ve
Each entry then includes the following two fields, separated by a colon:
.Ip "user/server" 4
Identifies the user requesting the corresponding service and the server
that performed that service. In cases where no user is directly involved,
only the server appears; in cases where no server is directly involved,
only the user appears.
.Ip "service" 4
Identifies one of the following actions or services performed by the user
or server process.
.Ip "\(bu" 8
\f(CWauth\fR: Obtained a ticket-granting ticket.
.Ip "\(bu" 8
\f(CWchp\fR: Changed a user password.
.Ip "\(bu" 8
\f(CWcruser\fR: Created a user entry in the Authentication Database.
.Ip "\(bu" 8
\f(CWdelu\fR: Deleted a user entry from the Authentication Database.
.Ip "\(bu" 8
\f(CWgtck\fR: Obtained a ticket other than a ticket-granting ticket.
.Ip "\(bu" 8
\f(CWsetf\fR: Set fields in an Authentication Database entry.
.Ip "\(bu" 8
\f(CWunlok\fR: Unlocked an Authentication Database entry.
.PP
The final line of output sums the number of entries.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following example shows the output of the \fBkdb\fR command in the ABC
Corporation cell (\f(CWabc.com\fR):
.PP
.Vb 7
\&   % kdb
\&   Printing all entries found in /usr/afs/logs/AuthLog
\&   admin,krbtgt.ABC.COM:auth
\&   admin,afs:gtck
\&   admin:cruser
\&   admin:delu
\&   4 entries were found
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The issuer must be logged in as the local superuser \f(CWroot\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIAuthLog.dir(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_getlog(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIkaserver(8)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "kdb 8"
.IX Name "kdb - Displays log or privileged actions performed by the Authentication Server"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "CAUTIONS"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-dbmfile\fR <\fIdbmfile to use\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-key\fR <\fIextract entries that match specified key\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "OUTPUT"

.IX Item "user/server"

.IX Item "service"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

