.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH package 8 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
package \- Configures files and directories on the local disk
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBpackage\fR [\fIinitcmd\fR] <<\ [\fB\-config\fR\ <\fIbase\ name\ of\ configuration\ file\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-fullconfig\fR\ <\fIfull\ name\ of\ configuration\ file,\ or\ stdin\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-overwrite\fR] [\fB\-noaction\fR] [\fB\-verbose\fR] [\fB\-silent\fR]
    [\fB\-rebootfiles\fR] [\fB\-debug\fR] [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBpackage\fR [\fBi\fR] <<\ [\fB\-c\fR\ <\fIbase\ name\ of\ configuration\ file\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-f\fR\ <\fIfull\ name\ of\ configuration\ file,\ or\ stdin\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-o\fR] [\fB\-n\fR] [\fB\-v\fR] [\fB\-s\fR] [\fB\-r\fR] [\fB\-d\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBpackage\fR command configures the machine's local disk to comply with
the instructions in the configuration file named by the \fB\-config\fR or
\fB\-fullconfig\fR argument.
.PP
By default, the package command alters any existing local disk element
whose contents or configuration does not match the element defined in the
configuration file. For example, if a configuration file \f(CWD\fR instruction
defines a directory that has the same name as a symbolic link on the local
disk, the \fBpackage\fR command replaces the symbolic link with the
directory. The \f(CWF\fR and \f(CWL\fR instructions include an optional
\fIupdate_code\fR field that alters this behavior.
.PP
Also by default, the package command takes no action on elements on the
local disk that are not mentioned in the configuration file. Use the \f(CWD\fR
instruction's \f(CWR\fR update code to remove files from the disk directory
that are not mentioned in the configuration file.
.PP
Before running the package command, the administrator must create the
template file and other files on the local disk. For instructions, see the
\fIIBM AFS Administration Guide\fR.
.PP
It is not possible to configure a remote client machine's disk using this
command.
.SH "CAUTIONS"
The package command interpreter exits without executing any instruction if
there are any syntax errors or incorrect values in the configuration file.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "[\fIinitcmd\fR]" 4
Accommodates the command's use of the \s-1AFS\s0 command parser, and is optional.
.Ip "\fB\-config\fR <\fIbase name of configuration file\fR>" 4
Specifies the pathname of the configuration file to use, ending in the
file's base name, which omits the suffix that indicates the machine
type. The \fBpackage\fR command determines the machine's system type name and
automatically appends it to the base name. An example of the proper value
for this argument is \f(CWstaff\fR rather than \f(CWstaff.rs_aix42\fR. Partial
pathnames are interpreted relative to the current working directory.
.Sp
Provide this argument or the \fB\-fullconfig\fR argument.
.Ip "\fB\-fullconfig\fR <\fIfull name of configuration file, or stdin\fR>" 4
Specifies the configuration file to use. Two types of values are
acceptable:
.Ip "\(bu" 8
The full pathname of the configuration file to use, complete with an
extension indicating the machine type (examples: \f(CWstaff.rs_aix42\fR,
\f(CWadmin.sun4x_56\fR).
.Ip "\(bu" 8
The string \f(CWstdin\fR to indicate that the issuer is providing configuration
information via the standard input stream, either by piping in the
contents of a file, or by typing configuration lines at the shell.  In the
latter case, type Ctrl-D to conclude the input.
.Sp
Provide this argument or the \fB\-config\fR argument.
.Ip "\fB\-overwrite\fR" 4
Overwrites elements on the local disk with the source version indicated in
the configuration file, even if the owner write (\f(CWw\fR) mode bit is turned
on the disk element. Files protected by the \f(CWI\fR update code on an \f(CWF\fR
line in the configuration file are not overwritten.
.Ip "\fB\-noaction\fR" 4
Checks the sequence of operations to be performed when the command
actually runs and reports any problems that the \fBpackage\fR command
interpreter expects to encounter. No elements on the local disk or in \s-1AFS\s0
are changed. If the \fB\-verbose\fR flag is also provided, the trace includes
all actions to be performed as well as anticipated errors.
.Ip "\fB\-silent\fR" 4
Suppresses some of the trace messages sent to the standard output stream
by default. The output still reports major problems.
.Ip "\fB\-verbose\fR" 4
Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the command's
execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings and error messages
appear.
.Ip "\fB\-rebootfiles\fR" 4
Prevents overwriting of any file marked with the \f(CWQ\fR update code on an
\f(CWF\fR line in the configuration file. This effectively prevents the machine
from rebooting automatically again when the \fBpackage\fR command is invoked
in the machine's \s-1AFS\s0 initialization file.
.Ip "\fB\-debug\fR" 4
Enables debugging output, which is directed to the standard output stream
by default. By default, no debugging output is produced.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
This command is usually invoked in a client machine's AFS initialization
file (\fI/etc/rc\fR or equivalent), rather than issued at the command shell
prompt.
.PP
The following command invokes the version of the staff configuration file
appropriate for this machine's system type, and produces verbose output.
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   # /etc/package -c staff -v
.Ve
The following example uses the configuration file whose basename is
defined in the \fI/.package\fR file on the local machine. This method enables
the administrator to use the same \fBpackage\fR command in every machine's
AFS initialization file but still customize configuration by putting the
appropriate basename in the \fI/.package\fR file.
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   # /etc/package -c `cat /.package` -v
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The issuer must be logged in as the local superuser \f(CWroot\fR.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIpackage(5)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "package 8"
.IX Name "package - Configures files and directories on the local disk"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "CAUTIONS"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "[\fIinitcmd\fR]"

.IX Item "\fB\-config\fR <\fIbase name of configuration file\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-fullconfig\fR <\fIfull name of configuration file, or stdin\fR>"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\fB\-overwrite\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-noaction\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-silent\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-verbose\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-rebootfiles\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-debug\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

