.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH upclient 8 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
upclient \- Initializes the client portion of the Update Server
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
<<\ \fBupclient\fR\ <\fIhostname\fR >>> [\fB\-crypt\fR] [\fB\-clear\fR] <<\ [\fB\-t\fR\ <\fIretry\ time\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-verbose\fR]* <\fIdir\fR>+ [\fB\-help\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The upclient command initializes the client portion of the Update
Server. In the conventional configuration, its binary file is located in
the \fI/usr/afs/bin\fR directory on a file server machine.
.PP
The upclient command is not normally issued at the command shell prompt
but rather placed into a file server machine's \fI/usr/afs/local/BosConfig\fR
file with the \fBbos create\fR command. If it is ever issued at the command
shell prompt, the issuer must be logged onto a database server machine as
the local superuser \f(CWroot\fR.
.PP
The upclient process periodically checks that all files in each local
directory named by the \fIdir\fR argument match the files in the
corresponding directory on the source machine named by the \fIhostname\fR
argument. If a file does not match, the \fBupclient\fR process requests the
source copy from the \fBupserver\fR process running on the source machine.
.PP
By default, the \fBupclient\fR process requests that the \fBupserver\fR process
encrypt the data before transferring it.  Use the \fB\-clear\fR flag to
request unencrypted transfer if appropriate. (The \fB\-crypt\fR flag
explicitly sets the default.)
.PP
In the conventional configuration, separate instances of the \fBupclient\fR
process request data from the \fI/usr/afs/bin\fR and \fI/usr/afs/etc\fR
directories, except on machines for which the system control machine is
also the binary distribution machine for the machine's system type. The
conventional names for the separate instances are \f(CWupclientbin\fR and
\f(CWupclientetc\fR respectively.
.PP
The \fBupclient\fR and \fBupserver\fR processes always mutually authenticate,
whether or not the data they pass is encrypted; they use the key with the
highest key version number in the \fI/usr/afs/etc/KeyFile\fR file to
construct a server ticket for mutual authentication.
.PP
This command does not use the syntax conventions of the AFS command
suites. Provide the command name and all option names in full.
.SH "CAUTIONS"
Do not use the Update Server to distribute the contents of the
\fI/usr/afs/etc\fR directory using the \fB\-clear\fR option.  The contents of
this directory are sensitive.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "<\fIhostname\fR>" 4
Names either the cell's system control machine (if the requested directory
is \fI/usr/afs/etc\fR), or the binary distribution machine for the local
machine's \s-1CPU\s0 and operating system type (if the requested directory is
\fI/usr/afs/bin\fR).
.Ip "\fB\-crypt\fR" 4
Requests the transfer of data from the upserver process in encrypted
form. This is the default; this flag just sets the default explicitly.
Do not use this flag with the \fB\-clear\fR flag.
.Ip "\fB\-clear\fR" 4
Requests transfer of data from the \fBupserver\fR process in unencrypted
form. Provide this flag or the \fB\-crypt\fR flag, but not both.
.Ip "\fB\-t\fR <\fIretry time\fR>" 4
Specifies how often to check for changes in each specified directory, as a
number of seconds. If this argument is omitted, the default is \f(CW300\fR (5
minutes). This argument determines the maximum amount of time it takes for
a change made on the source machine to propagate to this machine.
.Ip "\fB\-verbose\fR*" 4
Writes a trace of the upclient process's operations on the standard output
stream, which usually corresponds to the machine console. Provide one,
two, or three instances of the flag; each additional instance generates
increasingly numerous and detailed messages.
.Ip "<\fIdir\fR>+" 4
Names each directory to check for modified files. The conventional choices
are the following:
.Ip "\(bu" 8
\fI/usr/afs/bin\fR, in which case the recommended name for the process
(assigned with the \fB\-instance\fR argument to the \fBbos create\fR command) is
\f(CWupclientbin\fR. The \fIhostname\fR is the binary distribution machine for the
local machine's system type. You may wish to use the \fB\-clear\fR flag for
the \fI/usr/afs/bin\fR directory, since binaries are not particularly
sensitive and encrypting them takes system resources.
.Ip "\(bu" 8
\fI/usr/afs/etc\fR, in which case the recommended name for the process
(assigned with the \fB\-instance\fR argument to the \fBbos create\fR command) is
\f(CWupclientetc\fR. The \fIhostname\fR is the cell's system control machine. Use
the \fB\-crypt\fR flag for the \fI/usr/afs/etc\fR directory, since it contains
the \fIKeyFile\fR file and other data vital to cell security.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following bos create command creates an \f(CWupclientbin\fR process on the
machine \f(CWfs4.abc.com\fR that refers to the machine \f(CWfs1.abc.com\fR as the
source for the \fI/usr/afs/bin\fR directory (thus \f(CWfs1.abc.com\fR is the
binary distribution machine for machines of \f(CWfs4.abc.com\fR's type). The
files in the \fI/usr/afs/bin\fR directory are distributed every 120 seconds.
The command requests transfer in unencrypted form.
.PP
.Vb 3
\&   % bos create  -server fs4.abc.com -instance upclientbin -type simple \e
\&                 -cmd "/usr/afs/bin/upclient fs1.abc.com -clear \e
\&                 -t 120 /usr/afs/bin"
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The issuer must be logged in as the superuser \f(CWroot\fR on a file server
machine to issue the command at a command shell prompt. It is conventional
instead to create and start the process by issuing the \fBbos create\fR
command.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIBosConfig(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_create(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIupserver(8)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "upclient 8"
.IX Name "upclient - Initializes the client portion of the Update Server"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "CAUTIONS"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "<\fIhostname\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-crypt\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-clear\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-t\fR <\fIretry time\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-verbose\fR*"

.IX Item "<\fIdir\fR>+"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

