.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH upserver 8 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
upserver \- Initializes the server portion of the Update Server
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBupserver\fR [<\fIdirectory\fR>+] <<\ [\fB\-crypt\fR\ <\fIdirectory\fR+] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-clear\fR\ <\fIdirectory\fR+] >>> <<\ [\fB\-auth\fR\ <\fIdirectory\fR+] >>> [\fB\-help\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBupserver\fR command initializes the server portion of the Update
Server (the \f(CWupserver\fR process). In the conventional configuration, its
binary file is located in the \fI/usr/afs/bin\fR directory on a file server
machine.
.PP
The \fBupserver\fR command is not normally issued at the command shell prompt
but rather placed into a file server machine's \fI/usr/afs/local/BosConfig\fR
file with the \fBbos create\fR command. If it is ever issued at the command
shell prompt, the issuer must be logged onto a database server machine as
the local superuser \f(CWroot\fR.
.PP
The \fBupserver\fR command specifies which of the directories on the local
disk are eligible for distribution in response to requests from the client
portion of the Update Server (the \fBupclient\fR process) running on other
machines. If no directories are specified, the \fBupserver\fR process
distributes the contents of any directory on its local disk.
.PP
The \fBupserver\fR process can distribute a directory's contents in encrypted
or unencrypted form. By default, it does not use encryption unless an
\fBupclient\fR process requests it (this default is equivalent to setting the
\fB\-clear\fR flag). When the \fB\-crypt\fR flag is provided, the \fBupserver\fR
process only fulfills requests for encrypted transfer.
.PP
The \fBupclient\fR and \fBupserver\fR processes always mutually authenticate,
whether or not the data they pass is encrypted; they use the key with the
highest key version number in the \fI/usr/afs/etc/KeyFile\fR file to
construct a server ticket for mutual authentication.
.PP
This command does not use the syntax conventions of the AFS command
suites. Provide the command name and all option names in full.
.SH "CAUTIONS"
Do not use the Update Server to distribute the contents of the
\fI/usr/afs/etc\fR directory without the \fB\-crypt\fR flag.  The contents of
this directory are sensitive.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "<\fIdirectory\fR>+" 4
Names each directory to distribute in unencrypted form (because they
appear before the first \fB\-crypt\fR or \fB\-clear\fR flag on the command
line). If this argument is omitted, all directories on the machine's local
disk are eligible for distribution.
.Ip "\fB\-crypt\fR <\fIdirectory\fR>+" 4
Precedes a list of one or more directories that the \fBupserver\fR process
distributes only in encrypted form.
.Ip "\fB\-clear\fR <\fIdirectory\fR>+" 4
Precedes a list of one or more directories that the \fBupserver\fR process
distributes in unencrypted form unless the \fBupclient\fR process requests
them in encrypted form. Use this argument only if a list of directories
headed by the \fB\-crypt\fR flag precedes it on the command line.
.Ip "\fB\-auth\fR <\fIdirectory\fR>+" 4
Precedes a list of one or more directories which the upserver process
distributes using a form of encryption that is intermediate in complexity
and security between the unencrypted and encrypted levels set by the
\fB\-clear\fR and \fB\-crypt\fR arguments. Do not use this argument, because the
\fBupclient\fR process does not have a corresponding argument that it can use
to request data transfer at this level.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following example bos create command defines and starts an \fBupserver\fR
process on the host machine \f(CWfs1.abc.com\fR. The last parameter (enclosed
in quotes) instructs the \fBupserver\fR process to distribute the contents of
the \fI/usr/afs/bin\fR directory in unencrypted form and the contents of the
\fI/usr/afs/etc\fR directory in encrypted form.
.PP
.Vb 2
\&   % bos create  -server fs1.abc.com -instance upserver -type simple \e
\&       -cmd "/usr/afs/bin/upserver /usr/afs/bin -crypt /usr/afs/etc"
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The issuer must be logged in as the superuser \f(CWroot\fR on a file server
machine to issue the command at a command shell prompt. It is conventional
instead to create and start the process by issuing the \fBbos create\fR
command.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIBosConfig(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIbos_create(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIupclient(8)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "upserver 8"
.IX Name "upserver - Initializes the server portion of the Update Server"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "CAUTIONS"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "<\fIdirectory\fR>+"

.IX Item "\fB\-crypt\fR <\fIdirectory\fR>+"

.IX Item "\fB\-clear\fR <\fIdirectory\fR>+"

.IX Item "\fB\-auth\fR <\fIdirectory\fR>+"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

