.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH uss 8 "OpenAFS" "5/Jan/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
uss \- Introduction to the uss command suite
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The commands in the \fBuss\fR command suite help administrators to create AFS
user accounts more easily and efficiently. If \fBuss\fR commands are not
used, creating an account requires issuing at least six separate commands
to five different AFS servers.
.PP
There are three main commands in the suite:
.Ip "\(bu" 4
The \fBuss add\fR command creates a single complete user account, based on
command line arguments and instructions in a template file.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
The \fBuss bulk\fR command creates multiple complete accounts at once, based
on command line arguments, instructions in a template file and a bulk
input file.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
The \fBuss delete\fR command removes most parts of a user account.
.PP
To obtain help, issue the \fBuss apropos\fR and \fBuss help\fR commands.
.SH "OPTIONS"
The following arguments and flags are available on many commands in the
\fBuss\fR suite. The reference page for each command also lists them, but
they are described here in greater detail.
.Ip "\fB\-admin\fR <\fIadministrator to authenticate\fR>" 4
Specifies the \s-1AFS\s0 user name under which to establish a connection to the
\s-1AFS\s0 server processes that administer the various parts of a user
account. If it is omitted, the connection is established under the
issuer's effective user \s-1ID\s0 (his or her identity in the local file
system). Even when this argument is included, \s-1UNIX\s0 commands that run
during the \fBuss\fR operation (for instance, the \s-1UNIX\s0 \fI/etc/chown\fR command)
run under the effective user \s-1ID\s0.
.Ip "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>" 4
Names the cell in which to run the command. It is acceptable to abbreviate
the cell name to the shortest form that distinguishes it from the other
entries in the \fI/usr/vice/etc/CellServDB\fR file on the local machine. If
the \fB\-cell\fR argument is omitted, the command interpreter determines the
name of the local cell by reading the following in order:
.Ip "\(bu" 8
The value of the \s-1AFSCELL\s0 environment variable.
.Ip "\(bu" 8
The local \fI/usr/vice/etc/ThisCell\fR file.
.Ip "\fB\-dryrun\fR" 4
Reports actions that the command interpreter needs to perform when
executing the \fBuss\fR operation, without actually performing them. Include
this flag to verify that the command produces the desired account
configuration. Combine it with the \fB\-verbose\fR flag to yield even more
detailed information. Note that the output does not necessarily reveal all
possible problems that can prevent successful execution of the command,
especially those that result from transient server or network outages.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints a command's online help message on the standard output stream. Do
not combine this flag with any of the command's other options; when it is
provided, the command interpreter ignores all other options, and only
prints the help message.
.Ip "\fB\-skipauth\fR" 4
Bypasses mutual authentication with the \s-1AFS\s0 Authentication Server,
allowing a site that uses Kerberos instead of the \s-1AFS\s0 Authentication
Server to substitute that form of authentication.
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The issuer of a \fBuss\fR command must have all the rights required for
performing the equivalent actions individually. See each \fBuss\fR command's
reference page.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIuss(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIuss_bulk(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIuss_add(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIuss_apropos(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIuss_bulk(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIuss_delete(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIuss_help(8)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "uss 8"
.IX Name "uss - Introduction to the uss command suite"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-admin\fR <\fIadministrator to authenticate\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\fB\-dryrun\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-skipauth\fR"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

