.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH uss_bulk 8 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
uss bulk \- Executes multiple uss commands listed in a file
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBuss bulk\fR <<\ \fB\-file\fR\ <\fIbulk\ input\ file\fR >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-template\fR\ <\fIpathname\ of\ template\ file\fR] >>> [\fB\-verbose\fR]
    <<\ [\fB\-cell\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-admin\fR\ <\fIadministrator\ to\ authenticate\fR] >>> [\fB\-dryrun\fR]
    [\fB\-skipauth\fR] [\fB\-overwrite\fR]
    [\fB\-pwexpires\fR <\fIpassword expires in [0..254] days (0 =\fR never)>>]
    [\fB\-pipe\fR] [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBuss b\fR <<\ \fB\-f\fR\ <\fIbulk\ input\ file\fR >>> <<\ [\fB\-t\fR\ <\fIpathname\ of\ template\ file\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-v\fR] <<\ [\fB\-c\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-a\fR\ <\fIadministrator\ to\ authenticate\fR] >>> [\fB\-d\fR] [\fB\-s\fR]
    [\fB\-o\fR] [\fB\-pw\fR <\fIpassword expires in [0..254] days (0 =\fR never)>>]
    [\fB\-pi\fR] [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBuss bulk\fR command executes the uss commands listed in the \fIbulk
input file\fR specified with the \fB\-file\fR argument. If the bulk input file
includes \fBadd\fR instructions that reference a template file, then the
\fB\-template\fR argument is required.
.PP
To create a single account, use the \fBuss add\fR command. To delete one or
more accounts, use the \fBuss delete\fR command.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-file\fR <\fIbulk input file\fR>" 4
Specifies the pathname of the bulk input file. Partial pathnames are
interpreted relative to the current working directory. For details on the
file's format, see the \fIuss_bulk(5)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-template\fR <\fIpathname of template file\fR>" 4
Specifies the pathname of the template file for any uss add commands that
appear in the bulk input file. Partial pathnames are interpreted relative
to the current working directory. For details on the file's format, see
the \fIuss(5)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-verbose\fR" 4
Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the command's
execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings and error messages
appear.
.Ip "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>" 4
Specifies the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
the \fIuss(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-admin\fR <\fIadministrator to authenticate\fR>" 4
Specifies the \s-1AFS\s0 user name under which to establish authenticated
connections to the \s-1AFS\s0 server processes that maintain the various
components of a user account. For more details, see the \fIuss(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-dryrun\fR" 4
Reports actions that the command interpreter needs to perform while
executing the command, without actually performing them. For more details,
see the \fIuss(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-skipauth\fR" 4
Prevents authentication with the \s-1AFS\s0 Authentication Server, allowing a
site using Kerberos to substitute that form of authentication.
.Ip "\fB\-overwrite\fR" 4
Overwrites any directories, files and links that exist in the file system
and for which there are also \f(CWD\fR, \f(CWE\fR, \f(CWF\fR, \f(CWL\fR, or \f(CWS\fR instructions
in a template file referenced by an \f(CWadd\fR instruction in the bulk input
file. If this flag is omitted, the command interpreter prompts, once for
each \f(CWadd\fR instruction in the bulk input file, for confirmation that it
should overwrite such elements. Do not include this flag if the bulk input
file does not contain \f(CWadd\fR instructions.
.Ip "\fB\-pwexpires\fR <\fIpassword expiration\fR>" 4
Sets the number of days after a user's password is changed that it remains
valid, for each user named by an \f(CWadd\fR instruction in the bulk input
file. Provide an integer from the range \f(CW1\fR through \f(CW254\fR to specify the
number of days until expiration, or the value \f(CW0\fR to indicate that the
password never expires (the default).
.Sp
When the password becomes invalid (expires), the user is unable to
authenticate, but has 30 more days in which to issue the \fBkpasswd\fR
command to change the password (after that, only an administrator can
change it).
.Ip "\fB\-pipe\fR" 4
Suppresses the Authentication Server's prompt for the password of the
issuer or the user named by the \fB\-admin\fR argument (the Authentication
Server always separately authenticates the creator of an entry in the
Authentication Database). Instead, the command interpreter accepts the
password via the standard input stream, as piped in from another
program. This enables the \fBuss bulk\fR command to run as part of unattended
batch jobs.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following example command executes the instructions in the bulk input
file called \fInew_students\fR, which includes \f(CWadd\fR instructions that refer
to the template file \fIstudent.template\fR. Both files reside in the current
working directory.
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   % uss bulk new_students student.template
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The issuer (or the user named by the \fB\-admin\fR argument) must have the
privileges necessary to run the commands that correspond to instructions
in the bulk input file.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIuss(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIuss_bulk(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIuss(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIuss_add(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIuss_delete(8)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "uss_bulk 8"
.IX Name "uss bulk - Executes multiple uss commands listed in a file"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-file\fR <\fIbulk input file\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-template\fR <\fIpathname of template file\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-verbose\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-admin\fR <\fIadministrator to authenticate\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-dryrun\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-skipauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-overwrite\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-pwexpires\fR <\fIpassword expiration\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-pipe\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

