.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH uss_add 8 "OpenAFS" "1/Mar/2006" "AFS Command Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
uss add \- Creates a user account
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fBuss add\fR <<\ \fB\-user\fR\ <\fIlogin\ name\fR >>> <<\ [\fB\-realname\fR\ <\fIfull\ name\ in\ quotes\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-pass\fR\ <\fIinitial\ password\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-pwexpires\fR <\fI< password expires in [0..254] days (0 =\fR never) >>>]
    <<\ [\fB\-server\fR\ <\fIfile\ server\ for\ home\ volume\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-partition\fR\ <\fIfile\ server's\ disk\ partition\ for\ home\ volume\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-mount\fR\ <\fIhome\ directory\ mount\ point\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-uid\fR\ <\fIuid\ to\ assign\ the\ user\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-template\fR\ <\fIpathname\ of\ template\ file\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-verbose\fR] <<\ [\fB\-var\fR\ <\fIauxiliary\ argument\ pairs\ (Num\ val)\fR+] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-cell\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>> <<\ [\fB\-admin\fR\ <\fIadministrator\ to\ authenticate\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-dryrun\fR] [\fB\-skipauth\fR] [\fB\-overwrite\fR] [\fB\-help\fR]
.PP
\fBuss ad\fR <<\ \fB\-us\fR\ <\fIlogin\ name\fR >>> <<\ [\fB\-r\fR\ <\fIfull\ name\ in\ quotes\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-pas\fR\ <\fIinitial\ password\fR] >>>
    [\fB\-pw\fR <\fI< password expires in [0..254] days (0 =\fR never) >>>]
    <<\ [\fB\-se\fR\ <\fIFileServer\ for\ home\ volume\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-par\fR\ <\fIFileServer's\ disk\ partition\ for\ home\ volume\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-m\fR\ <\fIhome\ directory\ mount\ point\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-ui\fR\ <\fIuid\ to\ assign\ the\ user\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-t\fR\ <\fIpathname\ of\ template\ file\fR] >>> [\fB\-ve\fR]
    <<\ [\fB\-va\fR\ <\fIauxiliary\ argument\ pairs\ (Num\ val)\fR+] >>> <<\ [\fB\-c\fR\ <\fIcell\ name\fR] >>>
    <<\ [\fB\-a\fR\ <\fIadministrator\ to\ authenticate\fR] >>> [\fB\-d\fR] [\fB\-sk\fR] [\fB\-o\fR]
    [\fB\-h\fR]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The \fBuss add\fR command creates entries in the Protection Database and
Authentication Database for the user name specified by the \fB\-user\fR
argument. By default, the Protection Server automatically allocates an AFS
user ID (UID) for the new user; to specify an alternate AFS UID, include
the \fB\-uid\fR argument. If a password is provided with the \fB\-pass\fR
argument, it is stored as the user's password in the Authentication
Database after conversion into a form suitable for use as an encryption
key. Otherwise, the string \f(CWchangeme\fR is assigned as the user's initial
password.
.PP
The other results of the command depend on which instructions and which of
a defined set of variables appear in the template file specified with the
\fB\-template\fR argument. Many of the command's arguments supply a value for
one of the defined variables, and failure to provide an argument when the
corresponding variable appears in the template file halts the account
creation process at the point where the command interpreter first
encounters the variable in the template file.
.PP
To create multiple accounts with a single command, use the \fBuss bulk\fR
command. To delete accounts with a single command, use the \fBuss delete\fR
command.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.Ip "\fB\-user\fR <\fIlogin name\fR>" 4
Names the user's Authentication Database and Protection Database
entries. It can include up to eight alphanumeric characters, but not any
of the following characters: \f(CW:\fR (colon), \f(CW@\fR (at-sign), \f(CW.\fR (period),
space, or newline. Because it becomes the username (the name under which a
user logs in), it is best not to include shell metacharacters and to obey
the restrictions that many operating systems impose on usernames (usually,
to contain no more than eight lowercase letters).
.Sp
Corresponding variable in the template file: \f(CW$USER\fR.
.Ip "\fB\-realname\fR <\fIfull name in quotes\fR>" 4
Specifies the user's full name. If it contains spaces or punctuation,
surround it with double quotes. If not provided, it defaults to the user
name provided with the \fB\-user\fR argument.
.Sp
Corresponding variable in the template file: \f(CW$NAME\fR. Many operating systems
include a field for the full name in a user's entry in the local password
file (\fI/etc/passwd\fR or equivalent), and this variable can be used to pass
a value to be used in that field.
.Ip "\fB\-pass\fR <\fIinitial password\fR>" 4
Specifies the user's initial password. Although the \s-1AFS\s0 commands that
handle passwords accept strings of virtually unlimited length, it is best
to use a password of eight characters or less, which is the maximum length
that many applications and utilities accept. If not provided, this
argument defaults to the string \f(CWchangeme\fR.
.Sp
Corresponding variable in the template file: none.
.Ip "\fB\-pwexpires\fR <\fIpassword expiration\fR>" 4
Sets the number of days after a user's password is changed that it remains
valid. Provide an integer from the range \f(CW1\fR through \f(CW254\fR to specify
the number of days until expiration, or the value \f(CW0\fR to indicate that
the password never expires (the default).
.Sp
When the password becomes invalid (expires), the user is unable to
authenticate, but has 30 more days in which to issue the \fBkpasswd\fR
command to change the password (after that, only an administrator can
change it).
.Sp
Corresponding variable in the template file: \f(CW$PWEXPIRES\fR.
.Ip "\fB\-server\fR <\fIfile server name\fR>" 4
Names the file server machine on which to create the new user's volume. It
is best to provide a fully qualified hostname (for example,
\f(CWfs1.abc.com\fR), but an abbreviated form is acceptable provided that the
cell's naming service is available to resolve it at the time the volume is
created.
.Sp
Corresponding variable in the template file: \f(CW$SERVER\fR.
.Ip "\fB\-partition\fR <\fIfile server partition\fR>" 4
Specifies the partition on which to create the user's volume; it must be
on the file server machine named by the \fB\-server\fR argument. Provide the
complete partition name (for example \fI/vicepa\fR) or one of the following
abbreviated forms:
.Sp
.Vb 2
\&   /vicepa     =     vicepa      =      a      =      0
\&   /vicepb     =     vicepb      =      b      =      1
.Ve
After \fI/vicepz\fR (for which the index is 25) comes
.Sp
.Vb 2
\&   /vicepaa    =     vicepaa     =      aa     =      26
\&   /vicepab    =     vicepab     =      ab     =      27
.Ve
and so on through
.Sp
.Vb 1
\&   /vicepiv    =     vicepiv     =      iv     =      255
.Ve
Corresponding variable in the template file: \f(CW$PART\fR.
.Ip "\fB\-mount\fR <\fIhome directory mount point\fR>" 4
Specifies the pathname for the user's home directory. Partial pathnames
are interpreted relative to the current working directory.
.Sp
Specify the read/write path to the directory, to avoid the failure that
results from attempting to create a new mount point in a read-only
volume. By convention, the read/write path is indicated by placing a
period before the cell name at the pathname's second level (for example,
\fI/afs/.abc.com\fR). For further discussion of the concept of read/write and
read-only paths through the filespace, see the \fBfs mkmount\fR reference
page.
.Sp
Corresponding variable in template: \f(CW$MTPT\fR, but in the template file's \f(CWV\fR
instruction only. Occurrences of the \f(CW$MTPT\fR variable in template
instructions that follow the \f(CWV\fR instruction take their value from the
\f(CWV\fR instruction's \fImount_point\fR field. Thus the value of this command
line argument becomes the value for the \f(CW$MTPT\fR variable in instructions
that follow the \f(CWV\fR instruction only if the string \f(CW$MTPT\fR appears alone in
the \f(CWV\fR instruction's \fImount_point\fR field.
.Ip "\fB\-uid\fR <\fIuid to assign the user\fR>" 4
Specifies a positive integer other than 0 (zero) to assign as the user's
\s-1AFS\s0 \s-1UID\s0. If this argument is omitted, the Protection Server assigns an \s-1AFS\s0
\s-1UID\s0 that is one greater than the current value of the \f(CWmax user id\fR
counter (use the \fBpts listmax\fR command to display the counter). If
including this argument, it is best first to use the \fBpts examine\fR
command to verify that no existing account already has the desired \s-1AFS\s0
\s-1UID\s0; it one does, the account creation process terminates with an error.
.Sp
Corresponding variable in the template file: \f(CW$UID\fR.
.Ip "\fB\-template\fR <\fIpathname of template file\fR>" 4
Specifies the pathname of the template file. If this argument is omitted,
the command interpreter searches the following directories in the
indicated order for a file called \f(CWuss.template\fR:
.Ip "\(bu" 8
The current working directory.
.Ip "\(bu" 8
\fI/afs/\fIcellname\fR/common/uss\fR, where \fIcellname\fR names the local cell.
.Ip "\(bu" 8
\fI/etc\fR
.Sp
If the issuer provides a filename other than \f(CWuss.template\fR but without a
pathname, the command interpreter searches for it in the indicated
directories. If the issuer provides a full or partial pathname, the
command interpreter consults the specified file only; it interprets
partial pathnames relative to the current working directory.
.Sp
If the specified template file is empty (zero-length), the command creates
Protection and Authentication Database entries only.
.Sp
the \fIuss(5)\fR manpage details the file's format.
.Ip "\fB\-verbose\fR" 4
Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the command's
execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings and error messages
appear.
.Ip "\fB\-var\fR <\fIauxilliary argument pairs\fR>" 4
Specifies values for each of the number variables \f(CW$1\fR through \f(CW$9\fR that can
appear in the template file. Use the number variables to assign values to
variables in the \fBuss\fR template file that are not part of the standard
set.
.Sp
Corresponding variables in the template file: \f(CW$1\fR through \f(CW$9\fR.
.Sp
For each instance of this argument, provide two parts in the indicated
order, separated by a space:
.Ip "\(bu" 8
The integer from the range \f(CW1\fR through \f(CW9\fR that matches the variable in
the template file. Do not precede it with a dollar sign.
.Ip "\(bu" 8
A string of alphanumeric characters to assign as the value of the
variable.
.Sp
See the chapter on uss in the \fI\s-1IBM\s0 \s-1AFS\s0 Administration Guide\fR for further
explanation.
.Ip "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>" 4
Specifies the cell in which to run the command. For more details, see
the \fIuss(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-admin\fR <\fIadministrator to authenticate\fR>" 4
Specifies the \s-1AFS\s0 user name under which to establish authenticated
connections to the \s-1AFS\s0 server processes that maintain the various
components of a user account. For more details, see the \fIuss(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-dryrun\fR" 4
Reports actions that the command interpreter needs to perform while
executing the command, without actually performing them. For more details,
see the \fIuss(8)\fR manpage.
.Ip "\fB\-skipauth\fR" 4
Prevents authentication with the \s-1AFS\s0 Authentication Server, allowing a
site using Kerberos to substitute that form of authentication.
.Ip "\fB\-overwrite\fR" 4
Overwrites any directories, files and links that exist in the file system
and for which there are definitions in \f(CWD\fR, \f(CWE\fR, \f(CWF\fR, \f(CWL\fR, or \f(CWS\fR
instructions in the template file named by the \fB\-template\fR argument. If
this flag is omitted, the command interpreter prompts once for
confirmation that it is to overwrite all such elements.
.Ip "\fB\-help\fR" 4
Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The combination of the following example uss add command and \f(CWV\fR
instruction in a template file called \f(CWuss.tpl\fR creates Protection and
Authentication Database entries named \f(CWsmith\fR, and a volume called
\f(CWuser.smith\fR with a quota of 2500 kilobyte blocks, mounted at the
pathname \fI/afs/abc.com/usr/smith\fR. The access control list (ACL) on the
mount point grants \f(CWsmith\fR all rights.
.PP
The issuer of the \fBuss add\fR command provides only the template file's
name, not its complete pathname, because it resides in the current working
directory. The command and \f(CWV\fR instruction appear here on two lines only
for legibility; there are no line breaks in the actual instruction or
command.
.PP
.Vb 2
\&   V user.$USER $SERVER.abc.com /vice$PART $1 \e
\&       /afs/abc.com/usr/$USER $UID $USER all
.Ve
.Vb 2
\&   % uss add -user smith -realname "John Smith" -pass js_pswd \e
\&       -server fs2 -partition b -template uss.tpl -var 1 2500
.Ve
.SH "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"
The issuer (or the user named by the \fB\-admin\fR argument) must belong to
the system:administrators group in the Protection Database and must have
the \f(CWADMIN\fR flag turned on in his or her Authentication Database entry.
.PP
If the template contains a \f(CWV\fR instruction, the issuer must be listed in
the \fI/usr/afs/etc/UserList\fR file and must have at least \f(CWa\fR (administer)
and \f(CWi\fR (insert) permissions on the ACL of the directory that houses the
new mount point. If the template file includes instructions for creating
other types of objects (directories, files or links), the issuer must have
each privilege necessary to create them.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIUserList(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIuss(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIfs_mkmount(1)\fR manpage,
the \fIuss(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIuss_bulk(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIuss_delete(8)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "uss_add 8"
.IX Name "uss add - Creates a user account"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Header "OPTIONS"

.IX Item "\fB\-user\fR <\fIlogin name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-realname\fR <\fIfull name in quotes\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-pass\fR <\fIinitial password\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-pwexpires\fR <\fIpassword expiration\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-server\fR <\fIfile server name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-partition\fR <\fIfile server partition\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-mount\fR <\fIhome directory mount point\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-uid\fR <\fIuid to assign the user\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-template\fR <\fIpathname of template file\fR>"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\fB\-verbose\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-var\fR <\fIauxilliary argument pairs\fR>"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\fB\-cell\fR <\fIcell name\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-admin\fR <\fIadministrator to authenticate\fR>"

.IX Item "\fB\-dryrun\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-skipauth\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-overwrite\fR"

.IX Item "\fB\-help\fR"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "PRIVILEGE REQUIRED"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

