.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH afs 5 "OpenAFS" "5/Jan/2006" "AFS File Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
afs \- Introduction to AFS files
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
A number of files must reside on the local disk of AFS server and client
machines. They belong to the following general categories:
.Ip "\(bu" 4
\fIConfiguration files\fR define configuration parameters for specific server
and kernel processes such as the Backup System Tape Coordinator or the
Cache Manager.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
\fIAdministrative files\fR list information used in administration of server
machines, such as a list of privileged users or server encryption keys.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
\fICache-related files\fR contain cached data or information about cached
data, on client machines.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
\fILog files\fR contain tracing messages about the operation of a specific
process.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
\fIDatabase files\fR contain database records used to administer the \s-1AFS\s0
cell.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
\fIController files\fR control the behavior of a process.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
\fIVolume header files\fR represent \s-1AFS\s0 volumes on server partitions.
.PP
For a description of the format and contents of each file, see its
reference page.
.PP
Note for Windows users: Some files described in this document possibly do
not exist on machines that run a Windows operating system. Also, Windows
uses a backslash (\f(CW\e\fR) rather than a forward slash (\f(CW/\fR) to separate the
elements in a pathname.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Configuration files:
.Ip "the \fIBosConfig(5)\fR manpage" 4
.Ip "the \fICellServDB(5)\fR manpage" 4
.Ip "the \fINetInfo(5)\fR manpage" 4
.Ip "the \fINetRestrict(5)\fR manpage" 4
.Ip "the \fIThisCell(5)\fR manpage" 4
.Ip "the \fIbutc(5)\fR manpage" 4
.Ip "the \fIcacheinfo(5)\fR manpage" 4
.Ip "the \fIpackage(5)\fR manpage" 4
.Ip "the \fIsysid(5)\fR manpage" 4
.Ip "the \fItapeconfig(5)\fR manpage" 4
.Ip "the \fIuss(5)\fR manpage" 4
.Ip "the \fIuss_bulk(5)\fR manpage" 4
.PP
Administrative files:
.Ip "the \fIKeyFile(5)\fR manpage" 4
.Ip "the \fIUserList(5)\fR manpage" 4
.PP
Cache-related files:
.Ip "the \fIafs_cache(5)\fR manpage" 4
.PP
Log files:
.Ip "the \fIAuthLog(5)\fR manpage" 4
.Ip "the \fIBackupLog(5)\fR manpage" 4
.Ip "the \fIBosLog(5)\fR manpage" 4
.Ip "the \fIFileLog(5)\fR manpage" 4
.Ip "the \fISalvageLog(5)\fR manpage" 4
.Ip "the \fIVLLog(5)\fR manpage" 4
.Ip "the \fIVolserLog(5)\fR manpage" 4
.Ip "the \fIbutc(5)\fR manpage" 4
.Ip "the \fIfms.log(5)\fR manpage" 4
.PP
Database files:
.Ip "the \fIbdb.\s-1DB0\s0(5)\fR manpage" 4
.Ip "the \fIkaserver.\s-1DB0\s0(5)\fR manpage" 4
.Ip "the \fIkaserverauxdb(5)\fR manpage" 4
.Ip "the \fIprdb.\s-1DB0\s0(5)\fR manpage" 4
.Ip "the \fIvldb.\s-1DB0\s0(5)\fR manpage" 4
.PP
Controller files:
.Ip "the \fI\s-1FORCESALVAGE\s0(5)\fR manpage" 4
.Ip "the \fINoAuth(5)\fR manpage" 4
.Ip "the \fI\s-1SALVAGE\s0.fs(5)\fR manpage" 4
.Ip "the \fIsalvage.lock(5)\fR manpage" 4
.PP
Volume header files:
.Ip "the \fIafs_volume_header(5)\fR manpage" 4
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "afs 5"
.IX Name "afs - Introduction to AFS files"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Item "the \fIBosConfig(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fICellServDB(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fINetInfo(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fINetRestrict(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fIThisCell(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fIbutc(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fIcacheinfo(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fIpackage(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fIsysid(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fItapeconfig(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fIuss(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fIuss_bulk(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fIKeyFile(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fIUserList(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fIafs_cache(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fIAuthLog(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fIBackupLog(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fIBosLog(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fIFileLog(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fISalvageLog(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fIVLLog(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fIVolserLog(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fIbutc(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fIfms.log(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fIbdb.\s-1DB0\s0(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fIkaserver.\s-1DB0\s0(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fIkaserverauxdb(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fIprdb.\s-1DB0\s0(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fIvldb.\s-1DB0\s0(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fI\s-1FORCESALVAGE\s0(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fINoAuth(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fI\s-1SALVAGE\s0.fs(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fIsalvage.lock(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Item "the \fIafs_volume_header(5)\fR manpage"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

