.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH NetRestrict 5 "OpenAFS" "19/Jun/2007" "AFS File Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
NetRestrict \- Defines interfaces not to register with AFS servers
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
There are two \fINetRestrict\fR files, one for an AFS client and one for an
AFS File Server or database server.  The AFS client \fINetRestrict\fR file
specifies the IP addresses that the client should not register with the
File Servers it connects to.  The server \fINetRestrict\fR file specifies
what interfaces should not be registered with AFS Database Servers or used
to talk to other database servers.
.Sh "Client NetRestrict"
The \fINetRestrict\fR file, if present in a client machine's \fI/usr/vice/etc\fR
directory, defines the \s-1IP\s0 addresses of the interfaces that the local Cache
Manager does not register with a File Server when first establishing a
connection to it. For an explanation of how the File Server uses the
registered interfaces, see the \fINetInfo(5)\fR manpage.
.PP
As it initializes, the Cache Manager constructs a list of interfaces to
register, from the \fI/usr/vice/etc/NetInfo\fR file if it exists, or from the
list of interfaces configured with the operating system otherwise.  The
Cache Manager then removes from the list any addresses that appear in the
\fINetRestrict\fR file, if it exists. The Cache Manager records the resulting
list in kernel memory.
.PP
The \fINetRestrict\fR file is in \s-1ASCII\s0 format. One \s-1IP\s0 address appears on each
line, in dotted decimal format. The order of the addresses is not
significant. The value \f(CW255\fR is a wildcard that represents all possible
addresses in that field. For example, the value \f(CW192.12.105.255\fR
indicates that the Cache Manager does not register any of the addresses in
the \f(CW192.12.105\fR subnet.
.PP
To display the addresses the Cache Manager is currently registering with
File Servers, use the \fBfs getclientaddrs\fR command.
.Sh "Server NetRestrict"
The \fINetRestrict\fR file, if present in the \fI/usr/afs/local\fR directory,
defines the following:
.Ip "\(bu" 4
On a file server machine, the local interfaces that the File Server
(\fBfileserver\fR process) does not register in the Volume Location Database
(\s-1VLDB\s0) at initialization time.
.Ip "\(bu" 4
On a database server machine, the local interfaces that the Ubik
synchronization library does not use when communicating with the database
server processes running on other database server machines.
.PP
As it initializes, the File Server constructs a list of interfaces to
register, from the \fI/usr/afs/local/NetInfo\fR file if it exists, or from
the list of interfaces configured with the operating system otherwise. The
File Server then removes from the list any addresses that appear in the
\fINetRestrict\fR file, if it exists. The File Server records the resulting
list in the \fI/usr/afs/local/sysid\fR file and registers the interfaces in
the \s-1VLDB\s0. The database server processes use a similar procedure when
initializing, to determine which interfaces to use for communication with
the peer processes on other database machines in the cell.
.PP
The \fINetRestrict\fR file is in \s-1ASCII\s0 format. One \s-1IP\s0 address appears on each
line, in dotted decimal format. The order of the addresses is not
significant. The value \f(CW255\fR is a wildcard that represents all possible
addresses in that field. For example, the value \f(CW192.12.105.255\fR
indicates that the File Server or database server processes do not
register or use any of the addresses in the \f(CW192.12.105\fR subnet.
.PP
To display the File Server interface addresses registered in the \s-1VLDB\s0, use
the \fBvos listaddrs\fR command.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fINetInfo(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIsysid(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIvldb.DB0(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIfileserver(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIfs_getclientaddrs(1)\fR manpage
the \fIvos_listaddrs(1)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "NetRestrict 5"
.IX Name "NetRestrict - Defines interfaces not to register with AFS servers"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Subsection "Client NetRestrict"

.IX Subsection "Server NetRestrict"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Item "\(bu"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

