.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile$$Revision$$Date$
'''
''' $Log$
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH uss_bulk 5 "OpenAFS" "5/Jan/2006" "AFS File Reference"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
uss_bulk \- Provides instructions for the uss bulk command
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The uss bulk input file lists instructions for the \fBuss\fR command
interpreter to execute when running the \fBuss bulk\fR command. If the file
includes \f(CWadd\fR instructions that reference a \fBuss\fR template file, then
the template file must also exist.
.Sh "Summary of Bulk Input File Instructions"
The bulk input file can include the following instructions, each on its
own line. A more detailed description of each instruction's syntax follows
this list.
.Ip "add" 4
Creates a user account. Equivalent to the \fBuss add\fR command.
.Ip "delete" 4
Deletes a user account. Equivalent to the \fBuss delete\fR command.
.Ip "delvolume" 4
Removes the volume and \s-1VLDB\s0 entry for each account referenced by a
\f(CWdelete\fR instruction that follows this instruction in the bulk input
file.
.Ip "exec" 4
Executes a command.
.Ip "savevolume" 4
Preserves the volume and \s-1VLDB\s0 entry for each account referenced by a
\f(CWdelete\fR instruction that follows this instruction in the bulk input
file.
.Sh "The add Instruction for Creating an Account"
The \f(CWadd\fR instruction creates a user account. Each instance in the bulk
input file is equivalent in effect to a \fBuss add\fR command issued on the
command line. The order of the instruction's fields matches the order of
arguments to the \fBuss add\fR command, although some arguments do not have a
corresponding field. Like the \fBuss add\fR command's arguments, many of the
fields correspond to (provide a value for) a variable in the \fBuss\fR
template file, as indicated in the following description of each field.
.PP
The instruction's syntax is as follows. It appears on multiple lines here
only for the sake of legibility -- each \f(CWadd\fR instruction must appear on
a single line in the bulk input file.
.PP
.Vb 4
\&   add <username>[:<full_name>][:<password>][:<expires>]
\&       [:<file_server>][:<partition>][:<mount_point>][:<uid>]
\&       [:<var1>][:<var2>][:<var3>][:<var4>][:<var5>][:<var6>][:<var7>]
\&       [:<var8>][:<var9>][:]
.Ve
To omit a value for a field (presumably because it is optional or the
template specifies a constant value for it), type nothing between the two
colons that surround it. After the last argument provided, end the line
with either a colon and carriage return, or a carriage return alone.
.PP
The meaning of, and acceptable values for, each field are as follows.
.Ip "<username>" 4
Names the user's Authentication Database and Protection Database
entries. It can include up to eight alphanumeric characters, but not the
\f(CW:\fR (colon), \f(CW.\fR (period), or \f(CW@\fR (at-sign) characters. Because it
becomes the username (the name under which a user logs in), it is best not
to include shell metacharacters and to obey the restrictions that many
operating systems impose on usernames (usually, to contain no more than
eight lowercase letters).
.Sp
Corresponding argument to the \fBuss add\fR command: \fB\-user\fR. Corresponding
variable in the template file: \f(CW$USER\fR.
.Ip "<full_name>" 4
Specifies the user's full name. Do not surround it with double quotes
(\f(CW""\fR), even if it contains spaces. If not provided, it defaults to the
username in the <username> field.
.Sp
Corresponding argument to the \fBuss add\fR command: \fB\-realname\fR.
Corresponding variable in the template file: \f(CW$NAME\fR. Many operating systems
include a field for the full name in a user's entry in the local password
file (\fI/etc/passwd\fR or equivalent), and this variable can be used to pass
a value to be used in that field.
.Ip "<password>" 4
Specifies the user's initial password. Although the \s-1AFS\s0 commands that
handle passwords accept strings of virtually unlimited length, it is best
to use a password of eight characters or less, which is the maximum length
that many applications and utilities accept. If not provided, this
argument defaults to the string \f(CWchangeme\fR.
.Sp
Corresponding argument to the \fBuss add\fR command: \fB\-pass\fR. Corresponding
variable in the template file: none.
.Ip "<expires>" 4
Sets the number of days after a user's password is changed that it remains
valid. Provide an integer from the range \f(CW1\fR through \f(CW254\fR to specify
the number of days until expiration, or the value \f(CW0\fR to indicate that
the password never expires (the default).
.Sp
When the password becomes invalid (expires), the user is unable to
authenticate, but has 30 more days in which to issue the \fBkpasswd\fR
command to change the password (after that, only an administrator can
change it).
.Sp
Corresponding argument to the \fBuss add\fR command: \fB\-pwexpires\fR.
Corresponding variable in the template file: \f(CW$PWEXPIRES\fR.
.Ip "<file_server>" 4
Names the file server machine on which to create the new user's volume. It
is best to provide a fully-qualified hostname (for example,
\f(CWfs1.abc.com\fR), but an abbreviated form is acceptable provided that the
cell's naming service is available to resolve it at the time the volume is
created.
.Sp
Corresponding argument to the \fBuss add\fR command: \fB\-server\fR.
Corresponding variable in the template file: \f(CW$SERVER\fR.
.Ip "<partition>" 4
Specifies the partition on which to create the user's volume; it must
reside on the file server machine named in the <file_server>
field. Identify the partition by its complete name (for example,
\fI/vicepa\fR, or use one of the following abbreviations:
.Sp
.Vb 2
\&   /vicepa     =     vicepa      =      a      =      0
\&   /vicepb     =     vicepb      =      b      =      1
.Ve
After \fI/vicepz\fR (for which the index is 25) comes
.Sp
.Vb 2
\&   /vicepaa    =     vicepaa     =      aa     =      26
\&   /vicepab    =     vicepab     =      ab     =      27
.Ve
and so on through
.Sp
.Vb 1
\&   /vicepiv    =     vicepiv     =      iv     =      255
.Ve
Corresponding argument to the \fBuss add\fR command: \fB\-partition\fR.
Corresponding variable in template: \f(CW$PART\fR.
.Ip "<mount_point>" 4
Specifies the complete pathname for the user's home directory.
.Sp
Corresponding argument to the \fBuss add\fR command: \fB\-mount\fR.
.Sp
Corresponding variable in template: \f(CW$MTPT\fR, but in the template file's \f(CWV\fR
instruction only. Occurrences of the \f(CW$MTPT\fR variable in template
instructions that follow the \f(CWV\fR instruction take their value from the
\f(CWV\fR instruction's <mount_point> field. Thus the value of this command
line argument becomes the value for the \f(CW$MTPT\fR variable in instructions
that follow the \f(CWV\fR instruction only if the string \f(CW$MTPT\fR appears alone in
the \f(CWV\fR instruction's <mount_point> field.
.Ip "<uid>" 4
Specifies a positive integer other than \f(CW0\fR (zero) to assign as the
user's \s-1AFS\s0 \s-1UID\s0. If this argument is omitted, the Protection Server assigns
an \s-1AFS\s0 \s-1UID\s0 that is one greater than the current value of the \f(CWmax user
id\fR counter (use the \fBpts listmax\fR command to display the counter). If
including this argument, first use the \fBpts examine\fR command to verify
that no existing account already has the desired \s-1AFS\s0 \s-1UID\s0; if one does, the
account-creation process terminates with an error.
.Sp
Corresponding argument to the \fBuss add\fR command: \fB\-uid\fR. Corresponding
variable in template: \f(CW$UID\fR.
.Ip "<var1> through <var9>" 4
Specifies values for each of the number variables \f(CW$1\fR through \f(CW$9\fR that can
appear in the template file. The number variables allow the administrator
to provide values for variables other than the set defined by the \fBuss\fR
command suite.
.Sp
Corresponding argument to the \fBuss add\fR command: \fB\-var\fR. Corresponding
variables in template: \f(CW$1\fR through \f(CW$9\fR.
.Sp
If providing a value in any of the fields, then in every field that
precedes it either provide an actual value or indicate an empty field by
putting nothing between two colons. It is acceptable, but not necessary,
to indicate empty fields by putting colons after the last field that
contains an actual value.
.Sh "The delete Instruction for Deleting an Account"
The \f(CWdelete\fR instruction deletes a user account from the system. Each
instance in the bulk input file is equivalent in effect to a \fBuss delete\fR
command issued on the command line. The order of the instruction's fields
matches the order of arguments to the \fBuss delete\fR command:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   delete <username>:<mount_point>[:( savevolume | delvolume )][:]
.Ve
where
.Ip "<username>" 4
Names the entry to delete from the Protection and Authentication
Databases.
.Ip "<mount_point>" 4
Specifies the complete pathname to the user's home directory, which is
deleted from the filespace. By default, the volume mounted there is also
deleted from the file server machine where it resides, as is its record
from the Volume Location Database (\s-1VLDB\s0). To prevent deletion, include the
\f(CWsavevolume\fR string in the instruction's third field, or precede this
\f(CWdelete\fR instruction with a \f(CWsavevolume\fR instruction. Partial pathnames
are interpreted relative to the current working directory.
.Ip "savevolume" 4
Retains the volume on its file server machine, and the corresponding entry
in the \s-1VLDB\s0. Provide this value or \f(CWdelvolume\fR in the third field, or
omit both values to treat the volume according to the prevailing default,
which is set by a preceding \f(CWsavevolume\fR or \f(CWdelvolume\fR instruction in
the bulk input file.
.Ip "delvolume" 4
Removes the volume from its file server machine, and the corresponding
entry from the \s-1VLDB\s0. Provide this value or \f(CWsavevolume\fR in the third
field, or omit both values to treat the volume according to the prevailing
default, which is set by a preceding \f(CWsavevolume\fR or \f(CWdelvolume\fR
instruction in the bulk input file.
.PP
After the last argument provided, end the line with either a colon and
carriage return or a carriage return alone.
.Sh "The exec Instruction for Executing a Command"
The \f(CWexec\fR instruction executes the specified command, which can be a
\s-1UNIX\s0 shell script or command, a program, or an \s-1AFS\s0 command. The \fBuss\fR
command interpreter must have the necessary privileges in \s-1AFS\s0 and the
local file system; it assumes the \s-1AFS\s0 and local identities of the issuer
of the \fBuss bulk\fR command.
.PP
The instruction's syntax is as follows:
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   exec <command>
.Ve
.Sh "The delvolume and savevolume Instructions"
The \f(CWsavevolume\fR and \f(CWdelvolume\fR instructions determine the default
treatment of volumes referenced by the \f(CWdelete\fR instructions that follow
them in the bulk input file. Their syntax is as follows:
.PP
.Vb 2
\&   savevolume
\&   delvolume
.Ve
The \f(CWsavevolume\fR instruction prevents the removal of the volume and \s-1VLDB\s0
entry for all \f(CWdelete\fR instruction that follow it in the bulk input file,
and the \f(CWdelvolume\fR instruction removes the volume and \s-1VLDB\s0 entry for all
subsequent \f(CWdelete\fR instructions.  Either setting persists until its
opposite appears in the file, or until the end of the bulk file.
.PP
If neither line appears in the bulk input file, the default is to remove
the volume and the \s-1VLDB\s0 entry; \f(CWdelete\fR instructions that appear before
the first \f(CWsavevolume\fR instruction are also subject to this default. If a
\f(CWdelete\fR instruction's third field specifies either \f(CWsavevolume\fR or
\f(CWdelvolume\fR, that setting overrides the default.
.SH "EXAMPLES"
The following example add instruction creates an authentication-only
account. The user's initial password is \f(CWchangeme\fR (the default).
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   add anderson
.Ve
The following example add instructions refer to the indicated \f(CWV\fR
instruction in a template file (which must appear on a single line in the
template file).
.PP
.Vb 4
\&   add smith:John Smith:::fs1:a:::::marketing
\&   add jones:Pat Jones:::fs3:c:::::finance
\&   V user.$USER $SERVER.abc.com /vicep$PART 2000 \e
\&       /afs/abc.com/usr/$3/$USER $UID $USER all
.Ve
The first add instruction creates an account called \f(CWsmith\fR in the
Protection and Authentication Databases, with an initial password
\f(CWchangeme\fR and a value for \f(CW$UID\fR provided by the Protection Server. The
volume \f(CWuser.smith\fR resides on partition \fI/vicepa\fR of file server
machine \f(CWfs1.abc.com\fR and is mounted at
\fI/afs/abc.com/usr/marketing/smith\fR. He owns his home directory and has
all access permissions on its root directory's access control list
(ACL). The account for \f(CWjones\fR is similar, except that the volume resides
on partition \fI/vicepc\fR of file server machine \f(CWfs3.abc.com\fR and is
mounted at \fI/afs/abc.com/usr/finance/jones\fR.
.PP
Notice that the fields corresponding to the volume mount point, UID, \f(CW$1\fR
variable, and \f(CW$2\fR variable are empty (between \f(CWa\fR and \f(CWmarketing\fR on the
first example line), because their corresponding variables do not appear
in the template file. The initial password field is also empty.
.PP
The following add instructions are equivalent in effect to the preceding
example, but explicitly indicate empty fields for all of the number
variables that don't have a value:
.PP
.Vb 2
\&   add smith:John Smith:::fs1:a:::::marketing::::::
\&   add jones:Pat Jones:::fs3:c:::::finance::::::
.Ve
The following example shows a complete bulk file containing a set of
\f(CWdelete\fR instructions combined with a \f(CWsavevolume\fR instruction. Because
the \f(CWdelete\fR instruction for users \f(CWsmith\fR, \f(CWpat\fR, and \f(CWrogers\fR appear
before the \f(CWsavevolume\fR instruction and the third field is blank in each,
the corresponding home volumes are removed. The volume for user \f(CWterry\fR
is retained because the default established by the \f(CWsavevolume\fR
instruction applies to it, but user \f(CWjohnson\fR's volume is removed because
the third field of her \f(CWdelete\fR instruction overrides the current
default.
.PP
.Vb 6
\&   delete smith:/afs/abc.com/usr/smith
\&   delete pat:/afs/abc.com/usr/pat
\&   delete rogers:/afs/abc.com/usr/rogers
\&   savevolume
\&   delete terry:/afs/abc.com/usr/terry
\&   delete johnson:/afs/abc.com/usr/johnson:delvolume
.Ve
The following example exec instruction appears between sets of \f(CWadd\fR and
\f(CWdelete\fR instructions in a bulk input file.  A message appears in the
command shell where the \fBuss bulk\fR command is issued, to indicate when
the additions are finished and the deletions beginning.
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   exec echo "Additions completed; beginning deletions..."
.Ve
.SH "SEE ALSO"
the \fIuss(5)\fR manpage,
the \fIuss_add(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIuss_bulk(8)\fR manpage,
the \fIuss_delete(8)\fR manpage
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.
.PP
This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "uss_bulk 5"
.IX Name "uss_bulk - Provides instructions for the uss bulk command"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "DESCRIPTION"

.IX Subsection "Summary of Bulk Input File Instructions"

.IX Item "add"

.IX Item "delete"

.IX Item "delvolume"

.IX Item "exec"

.IX Item "savevolume"

.IX Subsection "The add Instruction for Creating an Account"

.IX Item "<username>"

.IX Item "<full_name>"

.IX Item "<password>"

.IX Item "<expires>"

.IX Item "<file_server>"

.IX Item "<partition>"

.IX Item "<mount_point>"

.IX Item "<uid>"

.IX Item "<var1> through <var9>"

.IX Subsection "The delete Instruction for Deleting an Account"

.IX Item "<username>"

.IX Item "<mount_point>"

.IX Item "savevolume"

.IX Item "delvolume"

.IX Subsection "The exec Instruction for Executing a Command"

.IX Subsection "The delvolume and savevolume Instructions"

.IX Header "EXAMPLES"

.IX Header "SEE ALSO"

.IX Header "COPYRIGHT"

