=head1 NAME

SALVAGE.fs - Triggers salvaging of AFS server partitions

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The F<SALVAGE.fs> file, if present in a file server machine's
F</usr/afs/local> directory, indicates to the Basic OverSeer (BOS) Server
(B<bosserver> process) that it must invoke the Salvager (B<salvager>
process) during recovery from a failure of the File Server (B<fileserver>
process).

The BOS Server creates the zero-length file each time it starts or
restarts the C<fs> process. When the File Server exits normally (for
example, in response to the B<bos shutdown> or B<bos stop> command), the
BOS Server removes the file. However, if the File Server exits
unexpectedly, the file remains in the F</usr/afs/local> directory as a
signal that the BOS Server must invoke the Salvager process to repair any
file system inconsistencies possibly introduced during the failure, before
restarting the File Server and Volume Server processes.

Do not create or remove this file. To invoke the Salvager process
directly, use the B<bos salvage> command or log onto the file server
machine as the local superuser C<root> and issue the B<salvager> command.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<bos_salvage(1)>,
L<bosserver(8)>,
L<fileserver(8)>,
L<salvager(8)>,
L<volserver(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
