=head1 NAME

UserList - Defines privileged administrators

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The F<UserList> file lists the AFS usernames of the system administrators
authorized to issue privileged B<bos>, B<vos>, and B<backup> commands that
affect the local server machine or the volumes housed on it. It must
reside in the F</usr/afs/etc> directory on every server machine.

Although the F<UserList> file is in ASCII format, do not use a text editor
to alter it. Instead always use the appropriate commands from the B<bos>
command suite:

=over 4

=item *

The B<bos adduser> command to add a user to the file.

=item *

The B<bos listusers> command to display the contents of the file.

=item *

The B<bos removeuser> command to remove a user from the file.

=back

Although it is theoretically possible to list different administrators in
the F<UserList> files on different server machines, doing so can cause
unanticipated authorization failures and is not recommended. In cells that
use the Update Server to distribute the contents of the F</usr/afs/etc>
directory, it is customary to edit only the copy of the file stored on the
system control machine. Otherwise, edit the file on each server machine
individually.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<bos_adduser(1)>,
L<bos_listusers(1)>,
L<bos_removeuser(1)>,
L<upclient(8)>,
L<upserver(8)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
