=head1 NAME

afs - Introduction to AFS commands

=head1 DESCRIPTION

AFS provides many commands that enable users and system administrators to
use and customize its features. Many of the commands belong to the
following categories, called I<command suites>.

=over 4

=item backup

Interface for configuring and operating the AFS Backup System.

=item bos

Interface to the Basic Overseer (BOS) Server for administering server
processes and configuration files.

=item fs

Interface for administering access control lists (ACLs), the Cache
Manager, and other miscellaneous file system functions.

=item fstrace

Interface for tracing Cache Manager operations when debugging problems.

=item kas

Interface to the Authentication Server for administering security and
authentication information.

=item pts

Interface to the Protection Server for administering AFS ID and group
membership information.

=item uss

Interface for automated administration of user accounts.

=item vos

Interface to the Volume Server and Volume Location (VL) Server for
administering volumes.

=back

In addition, there are several commands that do not belong to
suites.

=head2 AFS Command Syntax

AFS commands that belong to suites have the following structure:

I<command_suite> I<operation_code> B<-switch> <I<value>>[+] [B<-flag>]

=head3 Command Names

Together, the I<command_suite> and I<operation_code> make up the I<command
name>.

The I<command_suite> specifies the group of related commands to which the
command belongs, and indicates which command interpreter and server
process perform the command.  AFS has several command suites, including
B<bos>, B<fs>, B<kas>, B<package>, B<pts>, B<uss> and B<vos>.  Some of
these suites have an interactive mode in which the issuer omits the
I<operation_code> portion of the command name.

The I<operation_code> tells the command interpreter and server process
which action to perform. Most command suites include several operation
codes. The man pages for each command name describe each operation code in
detail, and the I<IBM AFS Administration Guide> describes how to use them
in the context of performing administrative tasks.

Several AFS commands do not belong to a suite and so their names do not
have a I<command_suite> portion. Their structure is otherwise similar to
the commands in the suites.

=head3 Options

The term I<option> refers to both arguments and flags, which are described
in the following sections.

=head3 Arguments

One or more arguments can follow the command name. Arguments specify the
entities on which to act while performing the command (for example, which
server machine, server process, or file). To minimize the potential for
error, provide a command's arguments in the order prescribed in its syntax
definition.

Each argument has two parts, which appear in the indicated order:

=over 4

=item *

The I<switch> specifies the argument's type and is preceded by a hyphen
(B<->). For instance, the switch B<-server> usually indicates that the
argument names a server machine. Switches can often be omitted, subject to
the rules outlined in L<"Conditions for Omitting Switches">.

=item *

The I<value> names a particular entity of the type specified by the
preceding switch. For example, the proper value for a B<-server> switch is
a server machine name like C<fs3.abc.com>. Unlike switches (which have a
required form), values vary depending on what the issuer wants to
accomplish. Values appear surrounded by angle brackets (C<< <> >>) in
command descriptions and the online help to show that they are
user-supplied variable information.

=back

Some arguments accept multiple values, as indicated by trailing plus sign
(C<+>) in the command descriptions and online help. How many of a
command's arguments take multiple values, and their ordering with respect
to other arguments, determine when it is acceptable to omit switches. See
L<"Conditions for Omitting Switches">.

Some commands have optional as well as required arguments; the command
descriptions and online help show optional arguments in square brackets
(C<[]>).

=head3 Flags

Some commands have one or more flags, which specify the manner in which
the command interpreter and server process perform the command, or what
kind of output it produces. Flags are preceded by hyphens like switches,
but they take no values. Although the command descriptions and online help
generally list a command's flags after its arguments, there is no
prescribed order for flags. They can appear anywhere on the command line
following the operation code, except in between the parts of an
argument. Flags are always optional.

=head3 An Example Command

The following example illustrates the different parts of a command that
belongs to an AFS command suite.

   % bos getdate -server fs1.abc.com -file ptserver kaserver

where

=over 4

=item *

B<bos> is the command suite. The BOS Server executes most of the commands
in this suite.

=item *

B<getdate> is the operation code. It tells the BOS Server on the specified
server machine (in this case C<fs1.abc.com>) to report the modification
dates of binary files in the local F</usr/afs/bin> directory.

=item *

C<-server fs1.abc.com> is one argument, with B<-server> as the switch and
C<fs1.abc.com> as the value. This argument specifies the server machine on
which BOS Server is to collect and report binary dates.

=item *

C<-file ptserver kaserver> is an argument that takes multiple values. The
switch is B<-file> and the values are C<ptserver> and C<kaserver>. This
argument tells the BOS Server to report the modification dates on the
files F</usr/afs/bin/kaserver> and F</usr/afs/bin/ptserver>.

=back

=head3 Rules for Entering AFS Commands

Enter each AFS command on a single line (press <Return> only at the end of
the command). Some commands in this document appear broken across multiple
lines, but that is for legibility only.

Use a space to separate each element on a command line from its
neighbors. Spaces rather than commas also separate multiple values of an
argument.

In many cases, the issuer of a command can reduce the amount of typing
necessary by using one or both of the following methods:

=over 4

=item *

Omitting switches.

=item *

Using accepted abbreviations for operation codes, switches (if they are
included at all), and some types of values.

=back

The following sections explain the conditions for omitting or shortening
parts of the command line. It is always acceptable to type a command in
full, with all of its switches and no abbreviations.

=head4 Conditions for Omitting Switches

It is always acceptable to type the switch part of an argument, but in
many cases it is not necessary. Specifically, switches can be omitted if
the following conditions are met.

=over 4

=item *

All of the command's required arguments appear in the order prescribed by
the syntax statement.

=item *

No switch is provided for any argument.

=item *

There is only one value for each argument (but note the important
exception discussed in the following paragraph).

=back

Omitting switches is possible only because there is a prescribed order for
each command's arguments. When the issuer does not include switches, the
command interpreter relies instead on the order of arguments; it assumes
that the first element after the operation code is the command's first
argument, the next element is the command's second argument, and so
on. The important exception is when a command's final required argument
accepts multiple values. In this case, the command interpreter assumes
that the issuer has correctly provided one value for each argument up
through the final one, so any additional values at the end belong to the
final argument.

The following list describes the rules for omitting switches from the
opposite perspective: an argument's switch must be provided when any of
the following conditions apply.

=over 4

=item *

The command's arguments do not appear in the prescribed order.

=item *

An optional argument is omitted but a subsequent optional argument is
provided.

=item *

A switch is provided for a preceding argument.

=item *

More than one value is supplied for a preceding argument (which must take
multiple values, of course); without a switch on the current argument, the
command interpreter assumes that the current argument is another value for
the preceding argument.

=back

=head4 An Example of Omitting Switches

Consider again the example command from L<"An Example Command">.

   % bos getdate -server fs1.abc.com -file ptserver kaserver

This command has two required arguments: the server machine name
(identified by the B<-server> switch) and binary file name (identified by
the B<-file> switch). The second argument accepts multiple values. By
complying with all three conditions, the issuer can omit the switches:

   % bos getdate fs1.abc.com ptserver kaserver

Because there are no switches, the bos command interpreter relies on the
order of arguments. It assumes that the first element following the
operation code, C<fs1.abc.com>, is the server machine name, and that the
next argument, C<ptserver>, is a binary file name. Then, because the
command's second (and last) argument accepts multiple values, the command
interpreter correctly interprets C<kaserver> as an additional value for
it.

On the other hand, the following is not acceptable because it violates the
first two conditions in L<"Conditions for Omitting Switches">: even though
there is only one value per argument, the arguments do not appear in the
prescribed order, and a switch is provided for one argument but not the
other.

   % bos getdate ptserver -server fs1.abc.com

=head3 Rules for Using Abbreviations and Aliases

This section explains how to abbreviate operation codes, option names,
server machine names, partition names, and cell names. It is not possible
to abbreviate other types of values.

=head4 Abbreviating Operation Codes

It is acceptable to abbreviate an operation code to the shortest form that
still distinguishes it from the other operation codes in its suite.

For example, it is acceptable to shorten B<bos install> to B<bos i>
because there are no other operation codes in the B<bos> command suite
that begin with the letter C<i>. In contrast, there are several B<bos>
operation codes that start with the letter C<s>, so the abbreviations must
be longer to remain unambiguous:

=over 4

=item B<bos sa> for bos salvage

=item B<bos seta> for bos setauth

=item B<bos setc> for bos setcellname

=item B<bos setr> for bos setrestart

=item B<bos sh> for bos shutdown

=item B<bos start> for bos start

=item B<bos startu> for bos startup

=item B<bos stat> for bos status

=item B<bos sto> for bos stop

=back

In addition to abbreviations, some operation codes have an I<alias>, a
short form that is not derived by abbreviating the operation code to its
shortest unambiguous form. For example, the alias for the B<fs setacl>
command is B<fs sa>, whereas the shortest unambiguous abbreviation is B<fs
seta>.

There are two usual reasons an operation code has an alias:

=over 4

=item *

Because the command is frequently issued, it is convenient to have a form
shorter than the one derived by abbreviating. The B<fs setacl> command is
an example.

=item *

Because the command's name has changed, but users of previous versions of
AFS know the former name. For example, B<bos listhosts> has the alias
B<bos getcell>, its former name.  It is acceptable to abbreviate aliases
to their shortest unambiguous form (for example, B<bos getcell> to B<bos
getc>).

=back

Even if an operation code has an alias, it is still acceptable to use the
shortest unambiguous form. Thus, the B<fs setacl> command has three
acceptable forms: B<fs setacl> (the full form), B<fs seta> (the shortest
abbreviation), and B<fs sa> (the alias).

=head4 Abbreviating Switches and Flags

It is acceptable to shorten a switch or flag to the shortest form that
distinguishes it from the other switches and flags for its operation
code. It is often possible to omit switches entirely, subject to the
conditions listed in L<"Conditions for Omitting Switches">.

=head4 Abbreviating Server Machine Names

AFS server machines must have fully-qualified Internet-style host names
(for example, C<fs1.abc.com>), but it is not always necessary to type the
full name on the command line. AFS commands accept unambiguous shortened
forms, but depend on the cell's name service (such as the Domain Name
Service) or a local host table to resolve a shortened name to the
fully-qualified equivalent when the command is issued.

Most commands also accept the dotted decimal form of the machine's IP
address as an identifier.

=head4 Abbreviating Partition Names

Partitions that house AFS volumes must have names of the form
F</vicepI<x>> or F</vicepI<xx>>, where the variable final portion is one
or two lowercase letters. By convention, the first server partition
created on a file server machine is called F</vicepa>, the second
F</vicepb>, and so on.  The I<IBM AFS Quick Beginnings> explains how to
configure and name a file server machine's partitions in preparation for
storing AFS volumes on them.

When issuing AFS commands, you can abbreviate a partition name using any
of the following forms:

   /vicepa     =     vicepa      =      a      =      0
   /vicepb     =     vicepb      =      b      =      1

After /vicepz (for which the index is 25) comes

   /vicepaa    =     vicepaa     =      aa     =      26
   /vicepab    =     vicepab     =      ab     =      27

and so on through

   /vicepiv    =     vicepiv     =      iv     =      255

=head4 Abbreviating Cell Names

A cell's full name usually matches its Internet domain name (such as
B<stateu.edu> for the State University or C<abc.com> for ABC
Corporation). Some AFS commands accept unambiguous shortened forms,
usually with respect to the local F</usr/vice/etc/CellServDB file> but
sometimes depending on the ability of the local name service to resolve
the corresponding domain name.

=head3 Displaying Online Help for AFS Commands

To display online help for AFS commands that belong to suites, use the
B<help> and B<apropos> operation codes.  A B<-help> flag is also available
on every almost every AFS command.

The online help entry for a command consists of two or three lines:

=over 4

=item *

The first line names the command and briefly describes what it does.

=item *

If the command has aliases, they appear on the next line.

=item *

The final line, which begins with the string C<Usage:>, lists the
command's options in the prescribed order; online help entries use the
same typographical symbols (brackets and so on) as this documentation.

=back

If no operation code is specified, the B<help> operation code displays the
first line (short description) for every operation code in the suite:

   % <command_suite> help

If the issuer specifies one or more operation codes, the B<help> operation
code displays each command's complete online entry (short description,
alias if any, and syntax):

   % <command_suite> help <operation_code>+

The B<-help> flag displays a command's syntax but not the short
description or alias:

   % <command_name> -help

The apropos operation code displays the short description of any command
in a suite whose operation code or short description includes the
specified keyword:

   % <command_suite> apropos "<help string>"

The following example command displays the complete online help entry for
the B<fs setacl> command:

   % fs help setacl
   fs setacl: set access control list
   aliases: sa
   Usage: fs setacl -dir <directory>+ -acl <access list entries>+
   [-clear] [-negative] [-id] [-if] [-help]

To see only the syntax statement, use the B<-help> flag:

   % fs setacl -help
   Usage: fs setacl -dir <directory>+ -acl <access list entries>+
   [-clear] [-negative] [-id] [-if] [-help]

In the following example, a user wants to display the quota for her home
volume. She knows that the relevant command belongs to the B<fs> suite,
but cannot remember the operation code. She uses B<quota> as the keyword:

   % fs apropos quota
   listquota: list volume quota
   quota: show volume quota usage
   setquota: set volume quota

The following illustrates the error message that results if no command
name or short description contains the keyword:

   % fs apropos "list quota"
   Sorry, no commands found

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

Many AFS commands require one or more types of administrative
privilege. See the reference page for each command.

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over 4

L<afsd(8)>,
L<afsmonitor(1)>,
L<backup(8)>,
L<bos(1)>,
L<bosserver(8)>,
L<buserver(8)>,
L<butc(8)>,
L<dlog(1)>,
L<dpass(1)>,
L<fileserver(8)>,
L<fms(8)>,
L<fs(1)>,
L<fstrace(8)>,
L<kadb_check(8)>,
L<kas(8)>,
L<kaserver(8)>,
L<kdb(8)>,
L<klog(1)>,
L<knfs(1)>,
L<kpasswd(1)>,
L<kpwvalid(8)>,
L<package(1)>,
L<pagsh(1)>,
L<prdb_check(8)>,
L<pts(1)>,
L<ptserver(8)>,
L<rxdebug(1)>,
L<salvager(8)>,
L<scout(1)>,
L<sys(1)>,
L<tokens(1)>,
L<translate_et(1)>,
L<unlog(1)>,
L<up(1)>,
L<upclient(8)>,
L<upserver(8)>,
L<uss(8)>,
L<vldb_check(8)>,
L<vlserver(8)>,
L<volinfo(8)>,
L<volserver(8)>,
L<vos(1)>,
L<xfs_size_check(8)>,
L<xstat_cm_test(8)>,
L<xstat_fs_test(8)>

=back

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
