=head1 NAME

bos shutdown - Stops a process without changing its status flag

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bos shutdown> B<-server> <I<machine name>>
    [B<-instance> <I<instances>>+] [B<-wait>] [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]
    [B<-noauth>] [B<-localauth>] [B<-help>]

B<bos sh> B<-s> <I<machine name>> [B<-i> <I<instances>>+] [B<-w>]
    [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] [B<-n>] [B<-l>] [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<bos shutdown> command stops, on the server machine named by the
B<-server> argument, either

=over 4

=item *

All of the currently running AFS server processes, except the BOS Server.

=item *

Only the processes specified by the B<-instance> argument.

=back

This command does not change a process's status flag in the
F</usr/afs/local/BosConfig> file, but only in the BOS Server's memory. To
stop a process and change its F<BosConfig> status flag, use the B<bos
stop> command instead.

Once stopped with this command, a process does not run again until an
administrator starts it by using the B<bos start>, B<bos startup>, or
B<bos restart> command, or until the BOS Server restarts (assuming that
the process's F<BosConfig> status flag is C<Run>).

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> <I<machine name>>

Indicates the server machine on which to stop processes. Identify the
machine by IP address or its host name (either fully-qualified or
abbreviated unambiguously). For details, see L<bos(1)>.

=item B<-instance> <I<instances>>+

Names each process to stop. Use the process name assigned with the
B<-instance> argument to the B<bos create> command. The output from the
B<bos status> command lists the names. Omit this argument to stop all
processes other than the BOS Server.

=item B<-wait>

Delays the return of the command shell prompt until all processes actually
stop. If this argument is omitted, the prompt returns almost immediately
even if all processes are not stopped.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<bos(1)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity C<anonymous> to the issuer. Do not
combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see
L<bos(1)>.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<bos> command interpreter presents the
ticket to the BOS Server during mutual authentication. Do not combine this
flag with the B<-cell> or B<-noauth> options. For more details, see
L<bos(1)>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command stops all processes other than the BOS Server on the
machine C<fs3.abc.com>.

   % bos shutdown fs3.abc.com

The following command stops the C<upserver> process (server portion of the
Update Server) on the machine C<fs5.abc.com>.

   % bos shutdown -server fs5.abc.com -instance upserver

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the
machine named by the B<-server> argument, or must be logged onto a server
machine as the local superuser C<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<BosConfig(5)>,
L<KeyFile(5)>,
L<UserList(5)>,
L<bos(1)>,
L<bos_create(1)>,
L<bos_restart(1)>,
L<bos_start(1)>,
L<bos_startup(1)>,
L<bos_status(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
