=head1 NAME

bos startup - Starts a process without changing its status flag

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bos startup> B<-server> <I<machine name>> [B<-instance> <I<instances>>+]
    [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] [B<-noauth>] [B<-localauth>] [B<-help>]

B<bos startu> B<-s> <I<machine name>> [B<-i> <I<instances>>+]
    [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] [B<-n>] [B<-l>] [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<bos startup> command starts, on the server machine named by the
B<-server> argument, either:

=over 4

=item *

All AFS server processes not currently running but marked with the C<Run>
status flag in the F</usr/afs/local/BosConfig> file.

=item *

Each process specified by B<-instance> argument, even if its status flag
in the B<BosConfig> file is C<NotRun>.

=back

To start a process and set its F<BosConfig> status flag to C<Run>, use the
B<bos start> command instead.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> <I<machine name>>

Indicates the server machine on which to start processes. Identify the
machine by IP address or its host name (either fully-qualified or
abbreviated unambiguously). For details, see L<bos(1)>.

=item B<-instance> <I<instances>>+

Names each process to start. Use the process name assigned with the
B<-instance> argument to the B<bos create> command. The output from the
B<bos status> command lists the names.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<bos(1)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity C<anonymous> to the issuer. Do not
combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see
L<bos(1)>.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<bos> command interpreter presents the
ticket to the BOS Server during mutual authentication. Do not combine this
flag with the B<-cell> or B<-noauth> options. For more details, see
L<bos(1)>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command starts all processes marked with status flag C<Run>
in the F<BosConfig> file on the machine C<fs3.abc.com> that are not
currently running.

   % bos startup fs3.abc.com

The following command starts the B<buserver>, B<kaserver>, B<ptserver>,
and B<vlserver> processes running on the machine C<db2.abc.com>, even if
their status flags in the F<BosConfig> file are C<NotRun>.

   % bos startup -server db2.abc.com \
       -instance buserver kaserver ptserver vlserver

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the
machine named by the B<-server> argument, or must be logged onto a server
machine as the local superuser C<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<BosConfig(5)>,
L<KeyFile(5)>,
L<UserList(5)>,
L<bos(1)>,
L<bos_create(1)>,
L<bos_start(1)>,
L<bos_status(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
