=head1 NAME

bos removeuser - Removes a privileged user from the UserList file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bos removeuser> B<-server> <I<machine name>> B<-user> <I<user names>>+
    [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] [B<-noauth>] [B<-localauth>] [B<-help>]

B<bos removeu> B<-s> <I<machine name>> B<-u> <I<user names>>+
    [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] [B<-n>] [B<-l>] [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<bos removeuser> command removes each user name specified with the
B<-user> argument from the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the machine
named by the B<-server> argument.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> <I<machine name>>

Indicates the server machine on which to change the
F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file. Identify the machine by IP address or its
host name (either fully-qualified or abbreviated unambiguously). For
details, see L<bos(1)>.

In cells that use the Update Server to distribute the contents of the
F</usr/afs/etc> directory, it is conventional to specify only the system
control machine as a value for the B<-server> argument. Otherwise, repeat
the command for each file server machine. For further discussion, see
L<bos(1)>.

=item B<-user> <I<user names>>+

Specifies each user name to remove.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<bos(1)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity C<anonymous> to the issuer. Do not
combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see
L<bos(1)>.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<bos> command interpreter presents the
ticket to the BOS Server during mutual authentication. Do not combine this
flag with the B<-cell> or B<-noauth> options. For more details, see
L<bos(1)>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example removes the users C<pat> and C<jones> from the
F<UserList> file on the system control machine C<fs1.abc.com>.

   % bos removeuser -server fs1.abc.com -user pat jones

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the
machine named by the B<-server> argument, or must be logged onto a server
machine as the local superuser C<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<KeyFile(5)>,
L<UserList(5)>,
L<bos(1)>,
L<bos_addkey(1)>,
L<bos_listkeys(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
