=head1 NAME

bos restart - Restarts a server process

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bos restart> B<-server> <I<machine name>> [B<-instance> <I<instances>>+]
    [B<-bosserver>] [B<-all>] [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] [B<-noauth>]
    [B<-localauth>] [B<-help>]

B<bos res> B<-s> <I<machine name>> [B<-i> <I<instances>>+] [B<-b>]
    [B<-a>] [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] [B<-n>] [B<-l>] [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<bos restart> command stops and immediately restarts server processes
on the server machine named by the B<-server> argument. Indicate which
process or processes to restart by providing one of the following
arguments:

=over 4

=item *

The B<-instance> argument names each AFS server process to stop and
restart immediately, regardless of its status flag in the
F</usr/afs/local/BosConfig> file. Do not include B<bosserver> in the list
of processes; use the B<-bosserver> flag instead.

=item *

The B<-bosserver> flag stops all AFS server processes running on the
machine, including the BOS Server. A new BOS Server starts immediately,
and it starts a new instance of each process that is marked with the
C<Run> status flag in the F<BosConfig> file.

=item *

The B<-all> flag stops all AFS server processes running on the machine,
except the BOS Server, and immediately restarts the processes that are
marked with the C<Run> status flag in the F<BosConfig> file.

=back

This command does not change a process's status flag in the F<BosConfig>
file.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> <I<machine name>>

Indicates the server machine on which to restart each process.  Identify
the machine by IP address or its host name (either fully-qualified or
abbreviated unambiguously). For details, see L<bos(1)>.

=item B<-instance> <I<instances>>+

Names each process to stop and then restart immediately regardless of its
status flag setting. Use the process name assigned with the B<-instance>
argument to the B<bos create> command. The output from the B<bos status>
command lists the names. Provide this flag or one of the B<-bosserver> or
B<-all> options, but do not combine them.

=item B<-bosserver>

Stops all AFS server processes running on the machine, including the BOS
Server. A new BOS Server instance immediately starts, and starts all
processes marked with the C<Run> status flag in the F<BosConfig>
file. Provide this flag or one of the B<-instance> or B<-all> options, but
do not combine them.

=item B<-all>

Stops all AFS server processes running on the machine other than the BOS
Server, and immediately restarts the processes marked with the B<Run>
status flag in the F<BosConfig> file. Provide this flag or one of the
B<-instance> or B<-bosserver> options, but do not combine them.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<bos(1)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity C<anonymous> to the issuer. Do not
combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see
L<bos(1)>.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<bos> command interpreter presents the
ticket to the BOS Server during mutual authentication. Do not combine this
flag with the B<-cell> or B<-noauth> options. For more details, see
L<bos(1)>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command stops and restarts all processes running on the
machine C<fs3.abc.com>, including the BOS Server.

   % bos restart -server fs3.abc.com -bosserver

The following command stops and restarts all processes running on the
machine C<fs5.abc.com>, excluding the BOS Server.

   % bos restart -server fs5.abc.com -all

The following command stops and restarts the Protection Server and Volume
Location (VL) Server processes on the machine C<db3.abc.com>:

   % bos restart -server db3.abc.com -instance ptserver vlserver

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the
machine named by the B<-server> argument, or must be logged onto a server
machine as the local superuser C<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<BosConfig(5)>,
L<KeyFile(5)>,
L<UserList(5)>,
L<bos(1)>,
L<bos_create(1)>,
L<bos_status(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
