=head1 NAME

bos setauth - Sets authorization checking requirements for all server processes

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bos setauth> B<-server> <I<machine name>> B<-authrequired> (on | off)
    [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>] [B<-noauth>] [B<-localauth>] [B<-help>]

B<bos seta> B<-s> <I<machine name>> B<-a> (on | off)
    [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] [B<-n>] [B<-l>] [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<bos setauth> command enables or disables authorization checking on
the server machine named by the B<-server> argument. When authorization
checking is enabled (the normal case), the AFS server processes running on
the machine verify that the issuer of a command meets its privilege
requirements. When authorization checking is disabled, server processes
perform any action for anyone, including the unprivileged user
C<anonymous>; this security exposure precludes disabling of authorization
checking except during installation or emergencies.

To indicate to the server processes that authorization checking is
disabled, the BOS Server creates the zero-length file
F</usr/afs/local/NoAuth> on its local disk. All AFS server processes
constantly monitor for the F<NoAuth> file's presence and do not check for
authorization when it is present. The BOS Server removes the file when
this command is used to reenable authorization checking.

=head1 CAUTIONS

Do not create the F<NoAuth> file directly, except when directed by
instructions for dealing with emergencies (doing so requires being logged
in as the local superuser C<root>). Use this command instead.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> <I<machine name>>

Indicates the server machine on which to enable or disable authorization
checking. Identify the machine by IP address or its host name (either
fully-qualified or abbreviated unambiguously). For details, see L<bos(1)>.

=item B<-authrequired> (on | off)

Enables authorization checking if the value is C<on>, or disables it if
the value is C<off>.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<bos(1)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity C<anonymous> to the issuer. Do not
combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see
L<bos(1)>.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<bos> command interpreter presents the
ticket to the BOS Server during mutual authentication. Do not combine this
flag with the B<-cell> or B<-noauth> options. For more details, see
L<bos(1)>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example disables authorization checking on the machine
C<fs7.abc.com>:

   % bos setauth -server fs7.abc.com -authrequired off

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the
machine named by the B<-server> argument, or must be logged onto a server
machine as the local superuser C<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<KeyFile(5)>,
L<NoAuth(5)>,
L<UserList(5)>,
L<bos(1)>,
L<bos_restart(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
