=head1 NAME

bos install - Installs a new version of a binary file

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<bos install> B<-server> <I<machine name>> B<-file> <I<files to install>>+
    [B<-dir> <I<destination dir>>] [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]
    [B<-noauth>] [B<-localauth>] [B<-help>]

B<bos i> B<-s> <I<machine name>> B<-f> <I<files to install>>+
    [B<-d> <I<destination dir>>] [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] [B<-n>]
    [B<-l>] [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<bos install> command copies each binary file specified with the
B<-file> argument to the local disk of the server machine named by the
B<-server> argument, which is normally the binary distribution machine for
its CPU/operating system type. The destination directory is
F</usr/afs/bin> unless the B<-dir> argument indicates an alternate
directory. The source file's UNIX mode bits are preserved in the transfer.

If there is already a file of the same name in the destination directory,
the BOS Server automatically saves it by adding a C<.BAK> extension. If
there is a current C<.BAK> version at least seven days old, it replaces
the current C<.OLD> version. If there is no current C<.OLD> version, the
current C<.BAK> version becomes the C<.OLD> version automatically. The
B<bos getdate> command displays the timestamps on the current versions of
the file.

To start using the new binary immediately, issue the bos restart
command. Otherwise, the BOS Server automatically restarts the process at
the time defined in the F</usr/afs/local/BosConfig> file; use the B<bos
getrestart> command to display the time and the B<bos setrestart> time to
set it.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-server> <I<machine name>>

Indicates the binary distribution machine on which to install the new
binaries. Identify the machine by IP address or its host name (either
fully-qualified or abbreviated unambiguously). For details, see L<bos(1)>.

If the machine is not a binary distribution machine and is running an
C<upclientbin> process, then the files are overwritten the next time the
C<upclientbin> process fetches the corresponding file from the
distribution machine (by default within five minutes).

=item B<-file> <I<files to install>>+

Specifies the complete pathname of each binary file to copy into the
destination directory. Each source directory can be on the local disk or
in AFS, in which case the issuer of the B<bos install> command must have
the necessary AFS access rights and the local machine must run the Cache
Manager. For the BOS Server to create C<.BAK> and C<.OLD> versions, the
last element in the pathname (the filename) must match the name of a file
in the destination directory.  L<bos_create(1)> lists the standard binary
file names.

=item B<-dir> <I<destination dir>>

Provides the complete pathname of the local disk directory in which to
install binary files. It is necessary only if the destination directory
is not F</usr/afs/bin>.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<bos(1)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity C<anonymous> to the issuer. Do not
combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see
L<bos(1)>.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<bos> command interpreter presents the
ticket to the BOS Server during mutual authentication. Do not combine this
flag with the B<-cell> or B<-noauth> options. For more details, see
L<bos(1)>.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following command copies the file
F</afs/abc.com/rs_aix42/usr/afs/bin/vlserver> to the file
F</usr/afs/bin/vlserver> on the machine C<fs3.abc.com>, which is the
binary distribution machine for server machines running AIX 4.2 in the
C<abc.com> cell. The current version of the F</usr/afs/bin/vlserver> file
is moved to F</usr/afs/bin/vlserver.BAK>.

   % bos install -server fs3.abc.com \
                 -file /afs/abc.com/rs_aix42/usr/afs/bin/vlserver

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the
machine named by the B<-server> argument, or must be logged onto a server
machine as the local superuser C<root> if the B<-localauth> flag is
included.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<BosConfig(5)>,
L<KeyFile(5)>,
L<UserList(5)>,
L<bos(1)>,
L<bos_getdate(1)>,
L<bos_getrestart(1)>,
L<bos_restart(1)>,
L<bos_setrestart(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
