=head1 NAME

fs listquota - Displays quota information for a volume

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<fs listquota> [B<-path> <I<dir/file path>>+] [B<-help>]

B<fs listq> [B<-p> <I<dir/file path>>+] [B<-h>]

B<fs lq> [B<-p> <I<dir/file path>>+] [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fs listquota> command displays information about the volume
containing each specified directory or file (its name, quota, and amount
of disk space used), along with an indicator of the percentage of space
used on the host partition.

To display more information about the host partition, use the B<fs
examine> command.

To set volume quota, use the B<fs setquota> or B<fs setvol> command.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-path> <I<dir/file path>>+

Names a file or directory that resides in the volume about which to
produce output. Partial pathnames are interpreted relative to the current
working directory, which is also the default value if this argument is
omitted.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output displays information about the volume that houses each
specified directory or file, in a tabular format that uses the following
headers:

=over 4

=item Volume Name

The name of the volume.

=item Quota

The volume's quota in kilobytes, or the string C<no limit> to indicate an
unlimited quota.

=item Used

The number of kilobytes of quota used.

=item % Used

The percentage of the volume's quota that is used (the C<Used> statistic
divided by the C<Quota> statistic, times 100).

=item Partition

The percentage of space used on the partition that houses the
volume. Although not directly related to how much of the user's quota is
used, it is reported because a full partition can cause writing of data
back to the volume to fail even when the volume has not reached its quota.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example shows the output for the volume C<user.smith>:

   % fs listquota -path /afs/abc.com/usr/smith
   Volume Name     Quota    Used    % Used   Partition
   user.smith      15000    5071       34%         86%

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must have the C<l> (lookup) permission on the ACL of the root
directory of the volume that houses the file or directory named by the
B<-path> argument, and on the ACL of each directory that precedes it in
the pathname.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_diskfree(1)>,
L<fs_examine(1)>,
L<fs_quota(1)>,
L<fs_setquota(1)>,
L<fs_setvol(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
