=head1 NAME

fs whereis - Reports each file server housing a file or directory

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<fs whereis> [B<-path> <I<dir/file path>>+] [B<-help>]

B<fs whe> [B<-p> <I<dir/file path>>+] [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<fs whereis> command returns the name of each file server machine
that houses the volume containing each directory or file named by the
B<-path> argument.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-path> <I<dir/file path>>+

Names each AFS file or directory for which to return the host file server
machine. Partial pathnames are interpreted relative to the current working
directory, which is also the default value if this argument is omitted.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 OUTPUT

The output includes a line for each specified directory or file. It names
the file server machine on which the volume that houses the specified
directory or file resides. A list of multiple machines indicates that the
directory or file is in a replicated volume.

Machine names usually have a suffix indicating their cell membership. If
the cell is not clear, use the B<fs whichcell> command to display the cell
in which the directory or file resides. To display the cell membership of
the local machine, use the B<fs wscell> command.

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example indicates that volume housing the directory
F</afs/abc.com> resides is replicated on both C<fs1.abc.com> and
C<fs3.abc.com>:

   % fs whereis -path /afs/abc.com
   File /afs/abc.com is on hosts fs1.abc.com fs3.abc.com

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

None

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<fs_whichcell(1)>,
L<fs_wscell(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
