=head1 NAME

vos unlock - Unlocks a single VLDB entry

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<vos unlock> B<-id> <I<volume name or ID>> [B<-cell> <I<cell name>>]
    [B<-noauth>] [B<-localauth>] [B<-verbose>] [B<-help>]

B<vos unlock> B<-i> <I<volume name or ID>> [B<-c> <I<cell name>>] [B<-n>]
    [B<-l>] [B<-v>] [B<-h>]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

The B<vos unlock> command releases the lock on the Volume Location
Database (VLDB) entry for the indicated volume.

=head1 CAUTIONS

Do not user this command under normal circumstances.

It is useful if the VLDB entry is locked but there is no reason to suspect
inconsistency within the volume or between it and the VLDB. Note that it
is possible to list information from locked VLDB entries, even though they
cannot be manipulated in other ways.

The B<vos unlockvldb> command unlocks several VLDB entries at once, or
even the entire VLDB. The B<vos lock> command locks a VLDB entry so that
no one else can perform an action that requires writing the VLDB.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over 4

=item B<-id> <I<volume name or ID>>

Specifies either the complete name or volume ID number of a volume of any
of the three types.

=item B<-cell> <I<cell name>>

Names the cell in which to run the command. Do not combine this argument
with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-noauth>

Assigns the unprivileged identity C<anonymous> to the issuer. Do not
combine this flag with the B<-localauth> flag. For more details, see
L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-localauth>

Constructs a server ticket using a key from the local
F</usr/afs/etc/KeyFile> file. The B<vos> command interpreter presents it
to the Volume Server and Volume Location Server during mutual
authentication. Do not combine this flag with the B<-cell> argument or
B<-noauth> flag. For more details, see L<vos(1)>.

=item B<-verbose>

Produces on the standard output stream a detailed trace of the command's
execution. If this argument is omitted, only warnings and error messages
appear.

=item B<-help>

Prints the online help for this command. All other valid options are
ignored.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

The following example unlocks the VLDB entry for the volume C<user.terry>.

   % vos unlock user.terry

=head1 PRIVILEGE REQUIRED

The issuer must be listed in the F</usr/afs/etc/UserList> file on the
machine specified with the B<-server> argument and on each database server
machine. If the B<-localauth> flag is included, the issuer must instead be
logged on to a server machine as the local superuser C<root>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<vos(1)>,
L<vos_lock(1)>,
L<vos_unlockvldb(1)>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

IBM Corporation 2000. <http://www.ibm.com/> All Rights Reserved.

This documentation is covered by the IBM Public License Version 1.0.  It was
converted from HTML to POD by software written by Chas Williams and Russ
Allbery, based on work by Alf Wachsmann and Elizabeth Cassell.
